b'Small animal studies have demonstrated significant high-dose recombinant parathyroid hormone1-34 (rPTH1-34) effects on intercalary allograft healing. Towards a human adjuvant therapy to decrease non-unions, we evaluated rPTH1-34 safety and efficacy in a clinically relevant canine femoral allograft model. Adult female mongrel hounds (n = 20) received a 5cm mid-diaphyseal osteotomy reconstructed with a plated allograft, and were randomized to: 1) Placebo (n = 5; daily saline), 2) Continuous rPTH1-34 (n = 7; 5 \xce\xbcg/kg/day s.c. from day 1-55 post-op), or 3) Delayed rPTH1-34 (n = 8; 5 \xce\xbcg/kg/day s.c. from day 14-28 post-op). Safety was assessed by physical behavior and blood calcium monitoring. Cone beam CT (CB-CT) was performed on days 14, 28 and 56 post-op to assess 2D cortical healing, 3D bone volume, and Union Ratio. Biomechanical testing and dynamic histomorphometry were also performed. The high drug dose was poorly tolerated, as most dogs receiving rPTH1-34 had to be given intravenous saline, and one dog died from hypercalcemia. Continuous rPTH1-34 significantly increased 2D healing and callus volumes at 4-weeks versus Placebo, and sustained the significant increase in cortical union at 8-week (p<0.05). These rPTH1-34 effects were confirmed by histomorphometry, revealing significant increases in mineral apposition rates (MAR) on host bone and graft-host junctions (p<0.05). Delayed rPTH1-34 significantly increased callus volume and MAR at 8 weeks (p<0.05). Although no biomechanical differences were observed, as expected for early healing, the results demonstrated that 2D RUST scoring significantly correlated with torsional biomechanics (p<0.01). In conclusion, 8-weeks of intermittent high-dose rPTH1-34 treatment significantly increases callus formation and accelerates bony union of intercalary massive allografts in a clinically relevant canine model, but with serious side-effects from hypercalcemia. labels: #Minerals'
b'Background: The processing of tea leaves determines the contents of bioactive ingredients, hence it should be expected that each variety of tea, black, red or green, will represent a different package of compounds of physiological importance. Taste and aroma, as well as price and brand are the main factors impacting consumers\xe2\x80\x99 preferences with regard to tea of their choice; on the other hand consumers less frequently pay attention to the chemical composition and nutritional value of tea.Objective: The purpose of the study was assessment of the nutritional value of black, green and white high-quality tea leaf from Chinese plantations based on the chemical composition of the dried leaves as well as minerals and caffeine content in tea infusions.Material and methods: The research material included 18 high-quality loose-leaf teas produced at Chinese plantations, imported to Poland, and purchased in an online store. The analyses included examination of the dried tea leaves for their chemical composition (contents of water, protein, volatile substances and ash) and assessment of selected minerals and caffeine contents in the tea infusions.Results: High-quality Chinese green teas were found with the most valuable composition of minerals, i.e. the highest contents of Zn, Mn, Mg, K, Ca and Al and the highest contents of protein in comparison to the other products. Chinese black teas had the highest contents of total ash and caffeine and white teas were characterized with high content of volatile substances, similar to the black teas, and the highest content of water and the lowest content of total ash.Conclusions: The three types of tea brews examined in the present study, in particular green tea beverages, significantly enhance the organism\xe2\x80\x99s mineral balance by providing valuable elements labels: #Minerals'
b"Background:Dietary supplements (DSs) have the potential to be both beneficial and harmful to health, especially in adults aged \xe2\x89\xa560 y, and therefore it is important to monitor the patterns of their use.Objective:This study evaluated DS use by adults aged \xe2\x89\xa560 y to characterize the use of DSs, determine the motivations for use, and examine the associations between the use of DSs and selected demographic, lifestyle, and health characteristics.Methods:Data from 3469 older adults aged \xe2\x89\xa560 y from the 2011-2014 NHANES were analyzed. DSs used in the past 30 d were ascertained via an interviewer-administered questionnaire in participants' homes. The prevalence of overall DS use and specific types of DSs were estimated. The number of DSs reported and the frequency, duration, and motivation(s) for use were assessed. Logistic regression models were constructed to examine the association between DS use and selected characteristics.Results:Seventy percent of older adults in the United States reported using \xe2\x89\xa51 DS in the past 30 d; 54% of users took 1 or 2 products, and 29% reported taking \xe2\x89\xa54 products. The most frequently reported products were multivitamin or mineral (MVM) (39%), vitamin D only (26%), and omega-3 fatty acids (22%). Women used DSs almost twice as often as men [adjusted OR (aOR), 1.8; 95% CI: 1.5, 2.3). Those not reporting prescription medications were less likely to take a DS than those reporting \xe2\x89\xa53 prescription medications (aOR, 0.4; 95% CI: 0.3, 0.6). The most frequently reported motivation for DS use was to improve overall health (41%).Conclusions:Use of DSs among older adults continues to be high in the United States, with 29% of users regularly taking \xe2\x89\xa54 DSs, and there is a high concurrent usage of them with prescription medications. labels: #Minerals"
b'The most common cause of male infertility is idiopathic oligo-, and or astheno-, and /or teratozoospermia. In such cases, anti-estrogens, antioxidants (vitamins and trace elements) or carnitines are used, but the evidence on their effectiveness is inconsistent; there are currently no published studies exploring their concurrent use.AIM: To investigate the efficacy and safety of the L- and acetyl-L-carnitine complex, vitamins A, E, C, selenium, zinc and other antioxidants ("SpermActin" + "More than vitamins") in combination with clomiphene citrate (CC) in managing male idiopathic infertility in the form of oligo, and/or astheno-, and/or teratozoospermia.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study comprised 173 men from infertile couples aged 25-45 years who were divided into two groups - the study group (n=88) and control group (n=85). All the patients were examined according to the WHO recommendations. Patients of the study group received L-carnitine fumarate (1 g), acetyl-L-carnitine (0.5 g) twice daily, a complex of vitamins and microelements and CC 25 mg twice daily orally. Patients of the control group were administered the same dosages of CC and a complex of vitamins. Ejaculate was evaluated before and after 3-4 months of treatment. Six months after the start of treatment, information about the onset or absence of pregnancy over the last six months was collected via telephone or online survey.RESULTS: Co-administration of L- and acetyl-L-carnitines concurrently with CC and antioxidant complex (vitamins and minerals) in patients with idiopathic oligo- and/or asteno- and/or teratozoospermia provides some additional positive effect on the concentration of spermatozoa, more pronounced in patients with multiple impaired semen parameters - oligoasthenoteratozoospermia, but does not improve the morphology, progressive sperm motility and pregnancy rates compared to patients receiving basic treatment. labels: #Minerals'
b"Purpose: To evaluate a self-assembling peptide gel as a potential vitreous substitute.Methods: PanaceaGel SPG-178, a self-assembling peptide gel, was diluted with distilled water and a balanced salt solution to achieve a final peptide concentration of 0.1%. The gel's refractive index, visible light transmission rate, and rheologic properties were investigated. The gel's biocompatibility was evaluated by examining the cellular viability (live and dead staining) and proliferation rate (alamarBlue assay). A 25-G pars plana vitrectomy was performed on the right eye of 21 New Zealand white rabbits. The gel was then injected into the vitreous cavity of 15 eyes. Six eyes were injected with a balanced salt solution (BSS) and served as controls. Toxicity was examined using electroretinography and histologic analysis after the injection of the gel.Results: The gel's physical properties closely resembled those of human vitreous. The gel showed no apparent toxicity. When the gel was injected into the vitreous cavity, fragmentation was not observed. Additionally, the gel remained transparent in the vitreous cavity and no complications were observed for 3 months after the injection. Electroretinography and histology confirmed the gel's biocompatibility.Conclusions: This diluted self-assembling peptide gel could be provide a promising vitreous substitute. labels: #Minerals"
b'Kordkandi-Duzduzan plain is one of the fertile plains of East Azarbaijan Province, NW of Iran. Groundwater is an important resource for drinking and agricultural purposes due to the lack of surface water resources in the region. The main objectives of the present study are to identify the hydrogeochemical processes and the potential sources of major, minor, and trace metals and metalloids such as Cr, Mn, Cd, Fe, Al, and As by using joint hydrogeochemical techniques and multivariate statistical analysis and to evaluate groundwater quality deterioration with the use of PoS environmental index. To achieve these objectives, 23 groundwater samples were collected in September 2015. Piper diagram shows that the mixed Ca-Mg-Cl is the dominant groundwater type, and some of the samples have Ca-HCO3, Ca-Cl, and Na-Cl types. Multivariate statistical analyses indicate that weathering and dissolution of different rocks and minerals, e.g., silicates, gypsum, and halite, ion exchange, and agricultural activities influence the hydrogeochemistry of the study area. The cluster analysis divides the samples into two distinct clusters which are completely different in EC (and its dependent variables such as Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+, SO42-, and Cl-), Cd, and Cr variables according to the ANOVA statistical test. Based on the median values, the concentrations of pH, NO3-, SiO2, and As in cluster 1 are elevated compared with those of cluster 2, while their maximum values occur in cluster 2. According to the PoS index, the dominant parameter that controls quality deterioration is As, with 60% of contribution. Samples of lowest PoS values are located in the southern and northern parts (recharge area) while samples of the highest values are located in the discharge area and the eastern part. labels: #Minerals'
b'There is increasing evidence showing that microbes can influence plant-insect interactions. In addition, various studies have shown that aboveground pathogens can alter the interactions between plants and insects. However, little is known about the role of soil-borne pathogens in plant-insect interactions. It is also not known how environmental conditions, that steer the performance of soil-borne pathogens, might influence these microbe-plant-insect interactions. Here, we studied effects of the soil-borne pathogen Rhizoctonia solani on aphids (Sitobion avenae) using wheat (Triticum aestivum) as a host. In a greenhouse experiment, we tested how different levels of soil organic matter (SOM) and fertilizer addition influence the interactions between plants and aphids. To examine the influence of the existing soil microbiome on the pathogen effects, we used both unsterilized field soil and sterilized field soil. In unsterilized soil with low SOM content, R. solani addition had a negative effect on aphid biomass, whereas it enhanced aphid biomass in soil with high SOM content. In sterilized soil, however, aphid biomass was enhanced by R. solani addition and by high SOM content. Plant biomass was enhanced by fertilizer addition, but only when SOM content was low, or in the absence of R. solani. We conclude that belowground pathogens influence aphid performance and that the effect of soil pathogens on aphids can be more positive in the absence of a soil microbiome. This implies that experiments studying the effect of pathogens under sterile conditions might not represent realistic interactions. Moreover, pathogen-plant-aphid interactions can be more positive for aphids under high SOM conditions. We recommend that soil conditions should be taken into account in the study of microbe-plant-insect interactions. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mine tailings often contain significant amounts of metals and sulfide, many traditional operations used to minerals was not as good as those currently available. This study investigated metals removal from lead-zinc mine tailings using bioleaching and followed by sulfide precipitation. Metals were dissolved from the tailings by the bacteria in a bioleaching reactor. During a 10% pulp density bioleaching experiment, approximately 0.82% Pb, 97.38% Zn, and 71.37% Fe were extracted after 50 days. With the pulp density of 10% and 20%, the dissolution of metals followed shrinking core kinetic model. Metals (Pb, Zn, and Fe) present in the pregnant bioleaching leachate. Metals were next precipitated as a sulfide phase using sodium sulfide (Na2S). Metal precipitations were selectively and quantitatively produced from the bioleaching leachate by adding Na2S. More than 99% of the zinc and 75% of the iron was precipitated using 25\xc2\xa0g/L Na2S in the bioleaching leachate. The results in the study were to provide useful information for recovering or removing metals from lead-zinc mine tailings. labels: #Minerals'
b'It is important to ingest just proportions of minerals to prevent disease, but these minerals are also secreted into the hair. Meanwhile, the number of hay fever patients in Japan is increasing, causing an increase in national medical expenses. In this study, we investigated the relationship between hay fever and mineral concentrations in hair to obtain findings on the risk of developing pollen allergies. A questionnaire survey was conducted for 275 men and 977 women on their lifestyle habits and ten kinds of mineral concentrations present in their hair were measured with subsequent analysis using nominal logistic regression analysis. The results indicated that half the patients in each age group had hay fever, with no significant difference between hay fever and aging, exercise habits, sleep and dietary rhythms. On the other hand, there was a significant difference between hay fever and mineral concentrations in the hair, and in men with hay fever, iron (odds ratio: 0.55, p<0.05) was low, while in women calcium (odds ratio: 0.67, p<0.05), chromium (odds ratio: 0.46, p<0.001), cadmium (odds ratio: 0.68, p<0.01) were low and selenium (odds ratio: 1.78, p<0.01) was high. These results, suggest that measurements mineral concentrations in hair are indicators of hay fever risk. labels: #Minerals'
b'Arsenic is a toxic and carcinogenic contaminant of potential concern. Ettringite [Ca6Al2(SO4)3(OH)12\xc2\xb726H2O] has the ability to incorporate oxyanions as a solid solution with SO42-, which could lower the soluble oxyanion concentrations. Therefore, ettringite containing SO42- and AsO43- has been synthesized. Results indicated that AsO43- could substitute for SO42- inside the channels of ettringite in the form of HAsO42-, and a linear correlation existed between Xinitial solution and Xsolid. The thermodynamic characterization of the solid samples was investigated by means of Visual MINTEQ, a freeware chemical equilibrium model, and the solubility product logK of -48.4 \xc2\xb1 0.4 was calculated for HAsO4-ettringite at 25\xc2\xb0C. The Lippmann phase diagram and XHAsO4-XHAsO4,aq plot showed that the solid solution series containing arsenate has HAsO4-poor aqueous solutions in equilibrium. These findings can be helpful to arsenate solidification and arsenate leaching modeling projects. labels: #Minerals'
b'In this research, ostrich bone ash (OBA) was modified with nanoscale zerovalent iron (nZVI) particles and applied as a novel composite adsorbent (OBA/nZVI) for dynamic adsorption/reduction of Hg(II) and Pb(II) ions in a fixed-bed column system. Entrapment of nZVI in OBA beads barricades the particles from oxidation and aggregation. The dynamic behavior of metal ions removal by OBA/nZVI was assessed as a function of inlet flow rates, bed height, initial pollutants concentration and pH. The synthesized OBA/nZVI composite was characterized by several physicochemical techniques. Increase in pH and bed height and decrease in flow rates and initial metal concentration resulted in delay of breakthrough time. OBA breakthrough profile is sharper than the OBA/nZVI breakthrough curve for both metal ions and the breakthrough times increase in the order OBA/nZVI-Hg(II)>OBA/nZVI-Pb(II)>OBA-Pb(II)>OBA-Hg(II). Based on the experiment results, redox reaction is expected to occur to a certain extent, as the standard reduction potentials of Hg(II) and Pb(II) are more than that of Fe(II). From a practical point of view, the OBA/nZVI could be applied as a material to remove Hg(II) and Pb(II) ions from natural surface and ground water with a pH value of 5-9. labels: #Minerals'
b'Wind tunnel studies, which remain limited, are an important tool to understand the aeolian processes of dried-up riverbeds. The particle size, chemical composition, and the mineral contents of sediments arising from the dried river beds are poorly understood. Dried-up riverbeds cover a wide area in the Hexi Corridor, China, and comprise a complex synthesis of different land surfaces, including aeolian deposits, pavement surfaces, and Takyr crust. The results of the present wind tunnel experiment suggest that aeolian transport from the dried-up riverbeds of the Hexi Corridor ranges from 0 to 177.04\xc2\xa0g/m2/min and that dry riverbeds could be one of the main sources of dust emissions in this region. As soon as the wind velocity reaches 16\xc2\xa0m/s and assuming that there are abundant source materials available, aeolian transport intensity increases rapidly. The dried-up riverbed sediment and the associated aeolian transported material were composed mainly of fine and medium sands. However, the transported samples were coarser than the bed samples, because of the sorting effect of the aeolian processes on the sediment. The aeolian processes also led to regional elemental migration and mineral composition variations. labels: #Minerals'
b'In 2011, the accident at the Fukushima-Daiichi nuclear power plant dispersed radioactive cesium throughout the environment, contaminating the land, rivers, and sea. Suspended particles containing clay minerals are the transportation medium for radioactive cesium from rivers to the ocean because cesium is strongly adsorbed between the layers of clay minerals, forming inner sphere complexes. In this study, the adsorption and desorption behaviors of radioactive cesium from suspended clay particles in river water have been investigated. The radioactive cesium adsorption and desorption experiments were performed with two kinds of suspended particulate using a batch method with137Cs tracers. In the cesium adsorption treatment performed before the desorption experiments, simulated river water having a total cesium concentration ([133+137Cs+]total) of 1.3\xc2\xa0nM (10-9\xc2\xa0mol/L) was used. The desorption experiments were mainly conducted at a solid-to-liquid ratio of 0.17\xc2\xa0g/L. The desorption agents were natural seawater collected at 10\xc2\xa0km north of the Fukushima-Daiichi nuclear power plant, artificial seawater, solutions of NaCl, KCl, NH4Cl, and133CsCl, and ultrapure water. The desorption behavior, which depends on the preloaded cesium concentration in the suspended particles, was also investigated. Based on the cesium desorption experiments using suspended particles, which contained about 1000\xc2\xa0ng/g loaded cesium, the order of cesium desorption ratios for each desorption agent was determined as 1\xc2\xa0M NaCl (80%)\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0470\xc2\xa0mM NaCl (65%)\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa01\xc2\xa0M KCl (30%)\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\x88\xc2\xa0seawater (natural seawater and Daigo artificial seawater)\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa01\xc2\xa0M NH4Cl (20%)>1\xc2\xa0M133CsCl (15%) \xe2\x89\xab ultrapure water (2%). Moreover, an interesting result was obtained: The desorption ratio in the 470\xc2\xa0mM NaCl solution was much higher than that in seawater, even though the Na+concentrations were identical. These results indicate that the cesium desorption mechanism is not a simple ion exchange reaction but is strongly related to structural changes in the clay minerals in the suspended particles. Hydrated Na+ions expand the interlayer distance of the clay minerals, resulting in the facile desorption of cesium; in contrast, dehydrated K+ions reduce the interlayer distance and inhibit the desorption of cesium. In conclusion, the desorption of cesium from the suspended particles is controlled by the presence of sodium and potassium ions and the preloaded cesium concentration in the suspended particles. labels: #Minerals'
b'Novel, cheap and ecofriendly fertilizers that solve the usual iron deficiency problem in calcareous soil are needed. The aim of this work is to study the long-term effect of an iron leonardite fertilizer on citrus nutrition taking into account a properly characterization, kinetic response with a ligand competition experiment, efficiency assessment using Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain and finally, in field conditions with citrus as test plants. Its efficiency was compared with the synthetic iron chelate FeEDDHA. Leonardite iron humate (LIH) is mainly humic acid with a high-condensed structure where iron is present as ferrihydrite and Fe3+polynuclear compounds stabilized by organic matter. Iron and humic acids form aggregates that decrease the iron release from these kinds of fertilizers. Furthermore, LIH repressed almost 50% of the expression of FET3, FTR1, SIT1, and TIS11 genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells, indicating increasing iron provided in cells and improved iron nutrition in citrus. labels: #Minerals'
b'Thoroughly a product of imperial Russia\xe2\x80\x99s aristocratic culture, the\nmineralogist and geochemist Aleksandr Fersman rose to the top of the country\xe2\x80\x99sscientific establishment after the Bolsheviks took control. He then remained a\nstaunch supporter of various industrial projects through much of the Stalinistperiod. This essay puts Fersman\xe2\x80\x99s thinking about the natural world in conversation\nwith a quite distinctive mode of intellectual inquiry that developed contemporaneously.Eurasianism was a philosophical doctrine of a group of Russian\n\xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9s who emphasized Russia\xe2\x80\x99s unique status straddling Europe and Asia.While Fersman did not belong to this group of thinkers, a number of his ideas\ndrew on specific experiences in the environments of the Eurasian landmass.Indeed, the article argues that Fersman\xe2\x80\x99s dualistic understanding of nature, his\nadvocacy for the field of geochemistry, his definition of deserts, and a schemehe proposed for industrial operations owed much to the Eurasian settings of\nthe science he practiced. Furthermore, this case of a Eurasian mineralogist illuminatesnovel aspects of the interplay between national and global sciences. labels: #Minerals'
b'Hydroquinones are important mediators of electron transfer reactions in soils with a capability to reduce Fe(III) minerals and molecular oxygen, and thereby generating Fenton chemistry reagents. This study focused on 2,6-dimethoxy hydroquinone (2,6-DMHQ), an analogue to a common fungal metabolite, and its reaction with ferrihydrite and goethite under variable pH and oxygen concentrations. Combined wet-chemical and spectroscopic analyses showed that both minerals effectively oxidized 2,6-DMHQ in the presence of oxygen. Under anaerobic conditions the first-order oxidation rate constants decreased by one to several orders of magnitude depending on pH and mineral. Comparison between aerobic and anaerobic results showed that ferrihydrite promoted 2,6-DMHQ oxidation both via reductive dissolution and heterogeneous catalysis while goethite mainly caused catalytic oxidation. These results were in agreement with changes in the reduction potential (EH) of the Fe(III) oxide/Fe(II)aqredox couple as a function of dissolved Fe(II) where EHof goethite was lower than ferrihydrite at any given Fe(II) concentration, which makes ferrihydrite more prone to reductive dissolution by the 2,6-DMBQ/2,6-DMHQ redox couple. This study showed that reactions between hydroquinones and iron oxides could produce favorable conditions for formation of reactive oxygen species, which are required for nonenzymatic Fenton-based decomposition of soil organic matter. labels: #Minerals'
b'The adsorption reactions of arsenate with ferric hydroxide minerals and amorphous ferric hydroxide play an important role in affecting the transport and fate of arsenate in the environment. Previous studies have investigated formation of mono- and bidentate complexes between arsenate and ferric hydroxide. Based on AsFe coordination numbers, there is spectroscopic evidence that arsenate may also form tridentate complexes with ferric hydroxide. However, the nature of these complexes and the reaction energies and activation barriers for their formation have not been investigated. This research used density functional theory (DFT) calculations to determine the structure of possible tridentate complexes and to determine reaction energies and activation barriers for forming different structures. Tridentate binding between arsenate and ferric hydroxide was found to be thermodynamically favorable for arsenate binding to two or three adjacent dioctahedral ferric hydroxide clusters. In addition, arsenate was also observed to form AsOAs bonds simultaneously to forming bidentate binuclear bonds with ferric hydroxide. The AsFe distances in the tridentate complexes differed from those calculated for bidentate complexes by an average distance of only 0.045\xc2\xa0\xc3\x85. This suggests that spectroscopic methods (EXAFS) may not be able to distinguish bidentate from tridentate complexes based on interatomic distances. Formation of tridentate complexes required overcoming activation barriers ranging from 13 to 51\xc2\xa0kcal/mol. Breaking of tridentate complexes had even greater activation barriers ranging from 18 to 62\xc2\xa0kcal/mol. This suggests that tridentate complexation may contribute to previously observed extremely slow adsorption and desorption reactions of arsenate with ferric hydroxide. labels: #Minerals'
b'A novel illite@carbon (I@C) nanocomposite adsorbent has been synthesized via a facile hydrothermal carbonization process (HTC) using glucose as carbonaceous source and illite as the carrier. The morphology, microstructure and surface properties of the prepared nanocomposite adsorbent were analyzed by FESEM, TGA, XRD, FT-IR and Zeta potential measurements. Batch experiments were carried out on the adsorption of Cr(VI) to determine the adsorption properties of the composite. The adsorption of Cr(VI) onto the I@C nanocomposite was well described by the pseudo-second-order kinetic model and Langmuir isotherm. Compared with the illite and carbon material (SC) separately, the prepared I@C nanocomposite adsorbent exhibited enhanced adsorption performance for Cr(VI) with a maximum adsorption capacity of 149.25mg/g, which was higher than that of most reported adsorbents. In addition, the adsorption process was spontaneous and endothermic based on the adsorption thermodynamics study. The adsorption of Cr(VI) by I@C was highly pH-dependent and the optimum adsorption occurred at pH2.0. The Zeta potential analysis results indicated that the electrostatic interactions between anionic Cr(VI) and the positively charged surface of the adsorbent might be critical to the adsorption mechanism. This study demonstrated that the I@C nanocomposite should be a promising candidate for a low-cost, environmental friendly and highly efficient adsorbent for the removal of toxic Cr(VI) from wastewater. labels: #Minerals'
b'Background:Early nutritional interventions may modulate health risks in preterm-born infants. Previously, we showed that preterm-born infants fed an isocaloric protein- and mineral-enriched postdischarge formula (PDF) from term age to 6-mo corrected age (CA) gained more lean mass than did those fed term formula (TF). Long-term follow-up of randomized nutritional trials is important to test the hypothesis that short-term positive effects on health are sustainable.Objective:The aim of this follow-up study was to compare body size, body composition, and metabolic health at age 8 y in preterm-born children who were randomly assigned to receive either PDF or TF from term age until 6-mo CA.Design:A total of 79 of 152 children (52%) from the original randomized controlled trial were enrolled for follow-up at age 8 y. Weight, height, and head circumference were measured by using standard methods. Body composition, including fat mass, lean mass, bone mineral content, and bone mineral density, was determined by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Blood pressure was measured in the supine position by using an automatic device. Metabolic variables, including glucose, insulin, insulin-like growth factor I, triglycerides, cholesterol, cortisol, and leptin, were measured after an overnight fast. Nutritional habits at age 8 y were assessed by using a 3-d nutritional diary.Results:At age 8 y, no differences were found in body size, body composition, bone variables, and metabolic health variables when comparing children fed PDF with those fed TF. Adjustment for known and possible confounders did not change these results.Conclusions:In this follow-up study in preterm-born children, we showed that the favorable effects of PDF at 6-mo CA either were not maintained or could not be confirmed because of attrition at the age of 8 y. We suggest that future research should focus on nutritional interventions in the pre- and postdischarge period as a continuum rather than as separate entities. This trial was registered at www.trialregister.nl as NTR 2972 (follow-up study [STEP-2 (Study Towards the Effects of Post-discharge Nutrition 2)]) and NTR 55 [original randomized controlled trial (STEP)]. labels: #Minerals'
b'AIM: To successfully treat and prevent urolithiasis, the composition and structure of uroliths should be examined using modern analytical techniques. For a long time, studies of the biomineral formation in the human body have been conducted exclusively in the field of medicine. The main attention has been paid to the diagnosis and treatment of diseases leading to the occurrence of pathogenic formations. At the same time, it is quite obvious that it is important to have a clear idea about the causes of pathogenic formations, the mechanisms for their further formation, composition and structure. Currently, these issues are widely studied all over the world by mineralogists, biochemists, geo-ecologists using methods of mineralogical analysis. The aim of this work was to determine the content of the elements that make up uroliths. This value should be normalized by the clarks of the noosphere. Studies on the mineral composition and structure of uroliths in the Tomsk region allowed to calculate the content of elements. It turned out that each medical district has its own specific geochemical series, which depends, probably, on natural and technogenic factors.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included urolith samples obtained from residents of 4 medical sub-districts of Tomsk district. 100 samples of different mineral composition were studied. Analytical techniques including crystal-morphological, spectral, X-ray structural, instrumental neutron-activation, electron microscopic analyses were used to investigate the morphology, mineral composition and structure of uroliths.RESULTS: The average content of elements in the uroliths, and the element concentrations normalized by the clark were established. After calculating the concentration, geochemical associative series of elements were formed. Depending on the morphology, drusiform, microspherolite, porous, coral formations, uroliths with a smoothed surface and stones with combined morphology were identified. Three groups of uroliths were defined according to their structural features: crystalline-granular, spherolithic and combined.CONCLUSION: Studies to determine the mineral composition and structure of the uroliths of the inhabitants of the Tomsk region made it possible to calculate the content of the elements that make up uroliths, normalized by clarks of the noosphere. Each medical sub-district has its own specific geochemical series, which depends on natural and technogenic factors. The increased value of the indicator of the content of elements in uroliths should serve as a warning factor for developing measures to reduce the urolithiasis incidence in the population. labels: #Minerals'
b"Objective:To investigate the effect of transforming growth factor-\xce\xb23 (TGF-\xce\xb23) and dental pulp stem cells (DPSC) in promoting the implant's osteointegration.Methods:Thirty-three New Zealand white rabbits were randomly divided into phosphate buffer saline (PBS) group, DPSC group and TGF-\xce\xb23 + DPSC group (12 rabbits/group). Two teeth from the rabbits's mandibular incisors or molars were pulled out randomly, then implant were placed in the tooth extraction site immediately. In PBS group, the implant area was filled with Bio-Oss powder 0.30 g mixed by PBS 20 \xce\xbcl only; while the implant area was filled with Bio-oss powder 0.30 g and 1\xc3\x9710(8)/L DPSC 20 \xce\xbcl in DPSC group; in the the TGF-\xce\xb23+DPSC group the implant area was filled with Bio-Oss powder 0.30 g mixed with 1\xc3\x9710(8)/L DPSC 20 \xce\xbcl and 80 \xce\xbcg/L TGF-\xce\xb23 20 \xce\xbcl. Eighteen New Zealand rabbits were executed in the 4 weeks and 8 weeks respectively. The treated alveolar bone tissue and implant were collected for plastic section. Alizarin red staining (ARS), immunohistochemical detection (IHC) of bone sialoprotein (BSP), osteocalcin (OC) and type \xe2\x85\xa0 collagen (COL-\xe2\x85\xa0) were performed after 4 weeks and 8 weeks. Combined bone lamelta width (CBLW) and implant bone contact rate (IBCR), trabecular width (TW) and trabecular area percentage (TA) were observed by histomorphometric measurement.Results:ARS staining: 4 weeks after the operation, the TGF-\xce\xb23+ DPSC group showed more red calcified nodules than the other two groups; 8 weeks after operation, the red calcified nodule was further increased. 4 weeks after the operation, the expression of BSP, OC and COL-\xe2\x85\xa0 was (0.35\xc2\xb1 0.04), (0.36 \xc2\xb1 0.03) and (0.39 \xc2\xb1 0.01) respectively in TGF-\xce\xb23+ DPSC group, (0.27 \xc2\xb1 0.02), (0.24 \xc2\xb1 0.01) and (0.28\xc2\xb10.03) respectively in DPSC group, and (0.13\xc2\xb10.03), (0.15\xc2\xb10.02) and (0.16\xc2\xb10.02) respectively in PBS group. Eight weeks after operation, the expression of BSP, OC and COL-\xe2\x85\xa0 was (0.51\xc2\xb10.02), (0.49\xc2\xb10.03) and (0.53\xc2\xb10.02) respectively in TGF-\xce\xb23+DPSC group, (0.35\xc2\xb10.02), (0.37\xc2\xb10.01) and (0.38\xc2\xb10.01) respectively in DPSC group, and (0.21\xc2\xb10.03), (0.19\xc2\xb10.01) and (0.22\xc2\xb10.02) respectively in PBS group. After 4 weeks and 8 weeks, the expression of BSP, OC and COL-\xe2\x85\xa0 in TGF-\xce\xb23+DPSC group were significantly higher than the other groups (P<0.05), there was no significant difference between DPSC group and PBS group (P>0.05). Eight weeks after operation, the CBLW, IBCR, TW and TA around implant in TGF-\xce\xb23+ DPSC group were significantly higher than that in the other groups (P<0.05), there was no significant difference between DPSC group and PBS group (P>0.05).Conclusions:The DPSC has the potential osteogenic differentiation ability; TGF-\xce\xb23 can accelerate the osteogenic differentiation of DPSC to some extent; TGF-\xce\xb23 combined with DPSC can effectively promote the implant's osseointegration. labels: #Minerals"
b'Desalination of seawater is becoming an important means to address the increasing scarcity of freshwater resources in the world. Seawater has been used as drinking water in the health, food, and medical fields and various beneficial effects have been suggested, although not confirmed. Given the presence of 63 minerals and trace elements in drinking desalinated seawater (63 DSW), we evaluated their effects on the behavior of tumorigenic and nontumorigenic cells through the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay and annexin-V-fluorescein isothiocyanate/propidium iodide staining. Our results showed that cell viability and proliferation in the presence of 63 DSW were significantly greater than in mineral water and in the presence of fetal bovine serum in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, 63 DSW showed no toxic effect on murine embryonic fibroblast (NIH-3T3) and murine melanoma (B16-F10) cells. In another assay, we also showed that pre-treatment of non-adherent THP-1 cells with 63 DSW reduces apoptosis incidence, suggesting a protective effect against cell death. We conclude that cell viability and proliferation were improved by the mineral components of 63 DSW and this effect can guide further studies on health effects associated with DSW consumption. labels: #Minerals'
b'Minerals of biological origin have shown significant potential for the separation of contaminants from water worldwide. This study details the contribution of biologically derived minerals to water treatment operations, with a focus on filtration media from urban municipalities and remote cold regions. The results support biofilm-embedded iron and manganese to be the building blocks of biogenic mineral development on activated carbon and nutrient-amended zeolites. The presence of similar iron and manganese oxidising bacterial species across all filter media supports the analogous morphologies of biogenic minerals between sites and suggests that biological water treatment processes may be feasible across a range of climates. This is the first time the stages of biogenic mineral formation have been aligned with comprehensive imaging of the biofilm community and bacterial identification; especially with respect to cold regions. Where biogenic mineral formation occurs on filter media, the potential exists for enhanced adsorption for a range of organic and inorganic contaminants and improved longevity of filter media beyond the adsorption or exchange capacities of the raw material. labels: #Minerals'
b"Objective:To investigate the average dietary nutrients intake status among Chinese residents between 2010-2012, and to compare the difference between rural and urban areas.Methods:Data were collected from Chinese Nutrition and Health Surveillance between 2010-2012. Based on regional features and economic development levels, China's county-level divisions were classified into four types: big city, medium and small city, ordinary rural area and poor rural area. A total of 62 857 valid subjects, including 14 017, 16 539, 19 910 and 12 391 respondents in each group separately, were enrolled by Multi-stage stratified proportion to the population cluster random sampling method. The dietary survey was conducted by recalling the 24 h diet in 3 consecutive days and weighting condiment. The daily dietary intake of energy, macronutrient, dietary fiber, vitamin, and mineral substance per resident were calculated based on China Food Composition.Results:The average energy intake per resident in Mainland China was 9 047.1 kJ, with highest (9 719.3 kJ) in poor rural area and lowest (8 490.4 kJ) in medium and small city. The average dietary protein intake was 64.2 g, with highest (73.9 g) in big city and lowest (60.7 g) in poor rural area. The average dietary fat intake was 79.7 g, with highest (89.4 g) in big city and lowest (70.6 g) in poor rural area. The average intake of micronutrients of vitamin A, vitamin B(2), vitamin C, calcium, iron, phosphorus, zinc was separately 441.9 \xce\xbcg, 0.8 mg, 80.1 mg, 364.3 mg, and 21.4 mg; which were lower than Chinese Dietary Reference Intakes. The percentage of population whose average intake of vitamin A, vitamin B(2), vitamin C, calcium were lower than estimated average requirement was separately 77.0%, 90.2%, 67.7%, and 96.6%.Conclusion:The supply of 3 macronutrient was sufficient in mainland China. However, it was a common issue that there was excessive intake of fat but deficient intake of micronutrients such as vitamin, calcium, iron and zinc. There were differences in nutrition intake among big city, medium and small city, ordinary rural area and poor rural area. labels: #Minerals"
b"The South East of Ireland (County Carlow) contains a deposit of the valuable lithium-bearing mineral spodumene (LiAl(SiO\xe2\x82\x83)\xe2\x82\x82). This resource has recently attracted interest and abstractive mining in the area is a possibility for the future. The open cast mining of this resource could represent a potential hazard in the form of metalliferous pollution to local water. The population of County Carlow is just under 60,000. The local authority reports that approximately 75.7% of the population's publicly supplied drinking water is abstracted from surface water and 11.6% from groundwater. In total, 12.7% of the population abstract their water from private groundwater wells. Any potential entry of extraneous metals into the area's natural waters will have implications for people in county Carlow. It is the goal of this paper to establish background concentrations of lithium and other metals in the natural waters prior to any mining activity. Our sampling protocol totaled 115 sites along five sampling transects, sampled through 2015. From this dataset, we report a background concentration of dissolved lithium in the natural waters of County Carlow, surface water at x \xc2\xaf = 0.02, SD = 0.02 ranging from 0 to 0.091 mg/L and groundwater at x \xc2\xaf = 0.023, SD = 0.02 mg/L ranging from 0 to 0.097 mg/L. labels: #Minerals"
b"The Talbragar Fish Bed is one of Australia's most important Jurassic deposits for freshwater fishes, land plants and aquatic and terrestrial insects. The site has yielded many well preserved fossils, which has led to the formal description of numerous new species and higher taxa. The excellent preservation of many fossils has allowed detailed anatomical studies, e.g. of the early teleost fish Cavenderichthys talbragarensis (Woodward, 1895). Here we report on the fluorescent characteristics and mineral composition of a range of Talbragar fossils. Most specimens fluoresce under ultraviolet, blue and green light. Elemental and mineralogical analyses revealed that the Talbragar fossils consist predominantly of quartz (SiO2), a mineral that is likely to account for the observed fluorescence, with trace kaolinite (Al2Si2O5(OH)4) in some of the fish fossils. Rock matrices are predominantly composed of quartz and goethite (FeO(OH)). Closer inspection of a plant leaf (Pentoxylon australicum White, 1981) establishes fluorescence as a useful tool for the visualisation of anatomical details that are difficult to see under normal light conditions. labels: #Minerals"
b'BACKGROUND: Nowadays, the demand for antibacterial fabrics has increased. White alum is used for oral aphthous ulcers treatment in traditional medicine of Sistan city, Sistan and Baluchistan Province, Iran, and also as a flocculent for water purification. This study is aimed to evaluate the effect of concentration and time on antibacterial activity of white alum onEscherichia coliO157:H7.MATERIALS AND METHODS: 0.25, 0.5, 1 and 2% concentrations of white alum were added to 108CFU ofEscherichia coliO157:H7. Optical Density was recorded for 4 hours. Data obtained were analyzed using Repeated Measure and One-way ANOVA by SPSS.RESULTS: Results revealed the effectiveness of white alum in the growth of the tested bacterium. The white alum was found to be potent againstEscherichia coliO157:H7 at a concentration above 1% (p<0.05). Also, its effect is dose and time dependent, as well as other disinfectants.CONCLUSION: A wide variety of natural products has been under scrutiny for their clinical potential, both in terms of prevention and treatment. Strong antibacterial activity of white alum compared with control was shown against tested bacterium. In conclusion, white alum can be used as an inhibitor of bacterial growth, especially forEscherichia coliO157:H7. labels: #Minerals'
b'The influence of low-molecular-weight dissolved organic matter (LMWDOM) on the dissolution rate of Sb2O3was investigated. Some representative LMWDOMs with carboxyl, hydroxyl, hydrosulfuryl and amidogen groups occurring naturally in the solution were chosen, namely oxalic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid, EDTA, salicylic acid, phthalandione, glycine, thiolactic acid, xylitol, glucose and catechol. These LMWDOMs were dissolved in inert buffers at pH=3.7, 6.6 and 8.6 and added to powdered Sb2O3in a stirred, thermostatted reactor (25\xc2\xb0C). The addition of EDTA, tartaric acid, thiolactic acid, citric acid and oxalic acid solutions at pH3.7 and catechol at pH8.6 increased the rate of release of antimony. In the 10mmol/L thiolactic acid solution, up to 97% by mass of the antimony was released after 120min reaction. There was no effect on the dissolution of Sb2O3for the other ligands. A weak correlation between dissolution rate with the dissociation constant of ligands and the stability of the dissolved complex was also found. All the results showed that the extent of the promoting effect of ligands on the dissolution of Sb2O3was not determined by the stability of the dissolved complex, but by the dissociation constant of ligands and detachment rate of surface chelates from the mineral surface. This study can not only help in further understanding the effect of individual low-molecular-weight organic ligands, but also provides a reference to deduce the effect of natural organic matters with oxygen-bearing functional groups on the dissolution of antimony oxide minerals. labels: #Minerals'
b'The attenuation of the acid mine drainage is one of the most important environmental challenges facing the mining industry worldwide. Mining waste deposits from an ancient metallurgical extraction of heavy metals were found near to the San Antonio marsh in Patagonia. The aim of this work was to determinate which mechanisms regulate the mobilization and retention of metals by acid drainage. A geological and geomorphological survey was carried out and samples from the mining waste deposits and the marsh were collected to determine soil texture, Eh pH, organic matter, Cu, Pb, Zn and Fe content, and soil mineralogical composition. Metals in marsh plants were determined in above- and below-ground structures. In the mining waste deposits polymetallic sulphides were recognized where the oxidation and formation of oxy-hydroxides and sulphates of Fe, Cu, Pb and Zn occurs. Then, by the alteration of those minerals, the metals enter in solution and are mobilized with the surface drainage towards the marsh where adsorption in the soils fine fraction and organic matter and/or by plants occurs. Locally, in the mining waste deposits, the precipitation/dissolution of Cu, Pb, and Zn sulphates take place in small centripetal drainage basins. In topographically lower portions of the marsh desorption and removal of metals by tidal flow could also be happen. The results allow to concluding that the marsh adjacent to the mining waste deposits is a geochemically active environment that naturally mitigates the contamination caused by acid drainage. labels: #Minerals'
b"The aim of this study was to assess the mineral composition, antioxidant activity, total phenolics and target polyphenols of two-seed propagated artichoke cultivars 'Romolo' and 'Istar' in relation to planting time (September and October), and seed coating with a consortium of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Trichoderma atroviride (coated and uncoated seeds during the second planting time). 'Romolo' was found to be richest in K+, Ca2+and Mg2+. Planting artichoke in October suppressed the antioxidant capacity (DPPH and ABTS) compared to the first planting period. The greatest accumulation of 3-O-caffeoylquinic acid, 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid and 1,3-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid in primary heads occurred in 'Romolo' during the first planting time. The content of 3-O-caffeoylquinic acid, 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid, apigenin 7-O-glucuronide in primary heads as well 1,5-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid in secondary heads increased with seed coating especially in 'Romolo'. These findings can assist growers in selecting cultivars and agronomical practices combining optimal yield with high nutraceutical properties. labels: #Minerals"
b'\xe2\x80\x83 The impact of bioreduction on the remobilization of adsorbed cadmium Cd(II) on minerals, including hematite, goethite, and two iron(III)-rich clay minerals nontronites (NAU-1 and NAU-2) under anoxic conditions was investigated. Langmuir isotherm equation better described the sorption of Cd(II) onto the all minerals. The maximum adsorption capacity was 6.2, 18.1, 3.6, and 4 mg g-1 for hematite, goethite, NAU-1 and NAU-2, respectively. The desorption of Cd(II) was due to the production of Fe(II) as a result of bioreduction of structural Fe(III) in the minerals by Shewanella putrefaciens. The bioreduction of Cd(II)-loaded Fe(III) minerals was negligible during the initial 5 days followed by a rapid increase up to 20 days. The amount of Cd(II) in solution phase at the end of 30 days increased up to 0.07 mmol L-1 for hematite, NAU-1, and NAU-2 and 0.02 mmol L-1 for goethite. The X-ray diffraction study showed negligible changes in bioreduced minerals phases. labels: #Minerals'
b'Research on the modeling of rock mechanics parameters is of great significance to the exploration of oil and gas. The use of logging data with the Kriging interpolation to study rock mechanics parameters has been proven to be effective in reservoir prediction and other oilfield applications and can provide additional data. However, there will sometimes be a great deviation due to the limited samples and the strong heterogeneity of a layer. To solve this problem, a new approach was proposed to calibrate rock mechanical models through the statistical analysis of logging data. A module was developed to calibrate rock mechanics parameters automatically, which was then applied to the Wangyao area of the Ansai oilfield. This method significantly improved the accuracy of rock mechanics modeling. labels: #Minerals'
b'Stromatolitic iron-rich structures have been reported from many ancient environments and are often described as Frutexites, a cryptic microfossil. Although microbial formation of such structures is likely, a clear relation to a microbial precursor is lacking so far. Here we report recent iron oxidizing biofilms which resemble the ancient Frutexites structures. The living Frutexites-like biofilms were sampled at 160 m depth in the \xc3\x84sp\xc3\xb6 Hard Rock Laboratory in Sweden. Investigations using microscopy, 454 pyrosequencing, FISH, Raman spectroscopy, biomarker and trace element analysis allowed a detailed view of the structural components of the mineralized biofilm. The most abundant bacterial groups were involved in nitrogen and iron cycling. Furthermore, Archaea are widely distributed in the Frutexites-like biofilm, even though their functional role remains unclear. Biomarker analysis revealed abundant sterols in the biofilm most likely from algal and fungal origins. Our results indicate that the Frutexites-like biofilm was built up by a complex microbial community. The functional role of each community member in the formation of the dendritic structures, as well as their potential relation to fossil Frutexites remains under investigation. labels: #Minerals'
b'A central composite rotatable design was applied to study the effects of soaking time, germination time and temperature on the responses; total phenolics, total flavonoids and antioxidant activity for the biochemical enhancement of bioactive components of Kodo millet. The optimum conditions for producing germinated Kodo millet flour of highest TPC (83.01mgGAE/100g), TFC (87.53mgRUE/g) and AoxA (91.34%), were soaking time (13.81h), germination temperature (38.75\xc2\xb0C) and germination time (35.82h). Protein increased significantly form, 6.7 to 7.9%, dietary fibers from 35.30 to 38.34g/100g, minerals from 232.82 to 251.73mg/100g, GABA contents from 9.36 to 47.43mg/100g, whereas phytates and tannins decreased from 1.344 to 0.997mol/kg and 1.603 to 0.234mg/100g respectively, in optimized germinated Kodo millet sample. Six new bioactive compounds [n-propyl-9,12,15-octadecatrienoate (0.86%), pregan,20-one-2hydroxy,5,6,epox-15-methyl (3.45%), hexa-decanoicacid (8.19%), 9,O-ctadecenoicacid (5.00%), butyl-6,9,12,15-octadecatetraenoate (4.03%), hexadecanoicacid-methylester (1.43%)], synthesized as a result of germination under optimum conditions in the Kodo millet depicted the germination potential of millets as a source of valuable bioactive compounds. labels: #Minerals'
b'A method using digestion with diluted nitric acid and inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry was applied to determine metal ions in the peel, pulp, and seed of Passiflora edulis f. flavicarpa and Passiflora cincinnata cultivated in the Bahia state, Brazil. Plasma parameters (radio frequency power and argon flow rates) were optimized. The quantification limits (\xc2\xb5g g-1) were: Ca (43.0); Co (1.3); Cu (10.0); Fe (10.0); K (20.0); Mg (26.6); Mn (0.33); Na (56.6) and Zn (10.0). The accuracy of the method was evaluated by the analysis of certified reference materials (NIST 1567a Wheat Flour and NIST 1577b Bovine Liver). Recovery studies were carried out and values found were between 89 and 120%. PCA and Kohonen self-organizing maps showed the formation of groups, corresponding to the fruit parts. Thus, passion fruit has great importance and biological potential, due to its high content of K and low Na. labels: #Minerals'
b'The evolution of mineral composition and wine strontium isotopic ratio87Sr/86Sr (Sr IR) during wood aging were investigated. A red wine was aged in stainless steel tanks with French oak staves (Quercus sessiliflora Salisb.), with three industrial scale replicates. Sampling was carried out after 30, 60, and 90 days of aging, and the wines were evaluated in terms of general analysis, phenolic composition, total polysaccharides, multielement composition, and Sr IR. Li, Be, Mg, Al, Sc, Ti, V, Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Ga, Ge, As, Rb, Sr, Y, Zr, Mo, Sb, Cs, Ba, Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Dy, Ho, Er, Yb, Lu, Tl, and Pb elements and87Sr/86Sr were determined by quadrupole inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (Q-ICP-MS) and Na, K, Ca, and Fe by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS). Two-way ANOVA was applied to assess wood aging and time effect on Sr IR and mineral composition. Wood aging resulted in significantly higher concentrations of Mg, V, Co, Ni, and Sr. At the end of the aging period, wine exhibited statistically identical Sr IR compared to control. Study suggests that wood aging does not affect87Sr/86Sr, not precluding the use of this parameter for wine traceability purposes. labels: #Minerals'
b'In this study, \xce\xb1-FeOOH on reduced graphene oxide (rGO-\xce\xb1-FeOOH) supported on an Al-doped MCM-41 catalyst (RFAM) was optimized for the visible-light photo-Fenton oxidation of phenol at neutral pH. The stability of the catalysts, effect of bubbling aeration, and degradation intermediates were investigated. Results indicated that RFAM with a large Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) area and mesoporous structure displayed excellent catalytic activity for the visible-light-driven (VLD) photo-Fenton process. Phenol degradation was well described by a pseudo-first-order reaction kinetics model. Raman analysis demonstrated that an rGO-\xce\xb1-FeOOH (RF) composite is formed during the ferrous-ion-induced self-assembly process. Al-MCM-41 could uniformly disperse RF nanosheets and promote the mobility and diffusion of matter. The activity of the main catalyst \xce\xb1-FeOOH was enhanced after the incorporation of rGO nanosheets. The \xce\xb1-FeOOH crystal in RFAM showed catalytic activity superior to those of Fe3O4and Fe2O3. The RFAM catalyst, with an optimal GO-Fe2+mass ratio of 2.33, exhibited a larger BET area, pore size, and pore volume, and thus exhibited high performance and energy utilization efficiency in the VLD photo-Fenton reaction with remarkable stability. Bubbling N2inhibited catalytic performance, while bubbling O2or air only slightly accelerated the phenol degradation. Visible light played an important role in accelerating the formation of reactive oxygen species (\xc2\xb7OH) for the highly efficient phenol degradation. Analysis of degradation intermediates indicated a high phenol mineralization level and the formation of low-molecular-weight organic acids. This work would be helpful in providing an insight into a new type of catalyst assembly and a possible route to a promising heterogeneous catalyst applicable in the visible light photo-Fenton process for effective wastewater remediation at neutral pH. labels: #Minerals'
b"RELEVANCE: One of the most common problems in modern caries prevention is the development of techniques to increase tooth resistance to the effects of cariogenic factors. Therefore, research is needed to study the chemical composition of tissues like teeth and body fluids surrounding the tooth to prevent demineralization process. The purpose of determining the effectiveness of work- and correlation relationship between endo saturation exogenous methods oral liquid mineral complexes.MATERIAL AND METHODS: In 95 patients analyzed the chemical composition and structure of the oral fluid by IR spectroscopy. For the collection of IR spectra used Verteh-70 spectrometer ('Bruker', Germany) and the prefix of frustrated total internal reflection PLATINUM ATR diamond prism.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: A correlation between the use of endogenous and exogenous methods of caries prevention, in favor of the former, as well as changes in the mineral-organic and phosphate-carbon ratio in the dry residues of oral fluid. labels: #Minerals"
b'Characterizing the properties of main host of iodine in soil/sediment and the geochemical behaviors of iodine species are critical to understand the mechanisms of iodine mobilization in groundwater systems. Four surface soil and six subsurface sediment samples were collected from the iodine-affected area of Datong basin in northern China to conduct batch experiments and to evaluate the effects of NOM and/or organic-mineral complexes on iodide/iodate geochemical behaviors. The results showed that both iodine contents and kf-iodate values had positive correlations with solid TOC contents, implying the potential host of NOM for iodine in soil/sediment samples. The results of chemical removal of easily extracted NOM indicated that the NOM of surface soils is mainly composed of surface embedded organic matter, while sediment NOM mainly occurs in the form of organic-mineral complexes. After the removal of surface sorbed NOM, the decrease in kf-iodate value of treated surface soils indicates that surface sorbed NOM enhances iodate adsorption onto surface soil. By contrast, kf-iodate value increases in several H2O2-treated sediment samples, which was considered to result from exposed rod-like minerals rich in Fe/Al oxyhydroxide/oxides. After chemical removal of organic-mineral complexes, the lowest kf-iodate value for both treated surface soils and sediments suggests the dominant role of organic-mineral complexes on controlling the iodate geochemical behavior. In comparison with iodate, iodide exhibited lower affinities on all (un)treated soil/sediment samples. The understanding of different geochemical behaviors of iodine species helps to explain the occurrence of high iodine groundwater with iodate and iodide as the main species in shallow (oxidizing conditions) and deep (reducing conditions) groundwater. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mineralization studies of natural steroid hormones (e.g., 17\xce\xb2-estradiol, E2) are performed in environmental incubators, usually under a constant temperature such as 20\xc2\xb0C. In this paper, we present a microcosm protocol that quantified the mineralization of E2 in soils under field temperatures. The nine agricultural soils tested had a wide range of soil organic carbon (1.1 to 5.2%) and clay (9 to 57%) contents. The calculated time over which half of the applied E2 was mineralized (E2-\xc2\xbd) ranged from 299 to 910\xc2\xa0d, and total E2 mineralization at 48\xc2\xa0d (E2-TOT48) ranged from 4 to 13%. In subsequent laboratory incubations, the same soils were incubated under a constant temperature of 20\xc2\xb0C, as well as under cyclic temperatures of 14.5\xc2\xb0C (14\xc2\xa0h) and 11.5\xc2\xb0C (10h), which was within the temperature extremes observed in the field microcosms. E2-\xc2\xbd ranged from 157 to 686\xc2\xa0d at 20\xc2\xb0C and from 103 to 608\xc2\xa0d at the cyclic temperatures, with the E2-TOT48 ranging from 6 to 21% at 20\xc2\xb0C and from 7 to 30% under cyclic temperatures. Despite the overall 6.75\xc2\xb0C lower mean temperatures under the cyclic versus constant temperatures, E2 mineralization was stimulated by the temperature cycles in three soils. Regardless of the incubation, the same loamy sand soil always showed larger E2 mineralization than the other eight soils and this loamy sand soil also had the smallest E2 sorption. Current modeling approaches do not take into consideration the effects of temperature fluctuations in the field because the input parameters used to describe degradation are derived from laboratory incubations at a constant temperature. Across the eight soils, E2-\xc2\xbd was on average 1.7 times larger and E2-TOT48 was on average 0.8 times smaller under field temperatures than under a constant 20\xc2\xb0C. Hence, we conclude that incubations at 20\xc2\xb0C give a reasonable representation of E2 mineralization occurring under field conditions to be expected in a typical Prairie summer season. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Podoconiosis, non-filarial elephantiasis, is a non-infectious disease found in tropical regions such as Ethiopia, localized in highland areas with volcanic soils cultivated by barefoot subsistence farmers. It is thought that soil particles can pass through the soles of the feet and taken up by the lymphatic system, leading to the characteristic chronic oedema of the lower legs that becomes disfiguring and disabling over time.METHODS: The close association of the disease with volcanic soils led us to investigate the characteristics of soil samples in an endemic area in Ethiopia to identify the potential causal constituents. We used the in vitro haemolysis assay and compared haemolytic activity (HA) with soil samples collected in a non-endemic region of the same area in Ethiopia. We included soil samples that had been previously characterized, in addition we present other data describing the characteristics of the soil and include pure phase mineral standards as comparisons.RESULTS: The bulk chemical composition of the soils were statistically significantly different between the podoconiosis-endemic and non-endemic areas, with the exception of CaO and Cr. Likewise, the soil mineralogy was statistically significant for iron oxide, feldspars, mica and chlorite. Smectite and kaolinite clays were widely present and elicited a strong HA, as did quartz, in comparison to other mineral phases tested, although no strong difference was found in HA between soils from the two areas. The relationship was further investigated with principle component analysis (PCA), which showed that a combination of an increase in Y, Zr and Al2O3, and a concurrent increase Fe2O3, TiO2, MnO and Ba in the soils increased HA.CONCLUSION: The mineralogy and chemistry of the soils influenced the HA, although the interplay between the components is complex. Further research should consider the variable biopersistance, hygroscopicity and hardness of the minerals and further characterize the nano-scale particles. labels: #Minerals'
b'The US FDA published new nutrition-labeling regulations in May 2016. For the first time since the implementation of the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990, the Daily Value (DV) for most vitamins will change, as will the units of measurement used in nutrition labeling for some vitamins. For some food categories, the Reference Amounts Customarily Consumed (RACCs) will increase to reflect portions commonly consumed on a single occasion. These regulatory changes are now effective, and product label changes will be mandatory beginning 26 July 2018. This commentary considers the potential impact of these regulatory changes on the vitamin and mineral contents of foods and dietary supplements. Case studies examined potential effects on food fortification and nutrient density. The updated DVs may lead to a reduction in the nutrient density of foods and dietary supplements with respect to 8 vitamins (vitamin A, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B-6, vitamin B-12, biotin, and pantothenic acid) and 6 minerals (zinc, selenium, copper, chromium, molybdenum, and chloride), and have mixed effects on 2 vitamins where the amount required per serving is affected by chemical structure (i.e., form) (natural vitamin E compared with synthetic vitamin E and folic acid compared with folate). Despite an increased DV for vitamin D, regulations limit food fortification. The adoption of Dietary Folate Equivalents for folate labeling may lead to reductions in the quantity of folic acid voluntarily added per RACC. Finally, because of increased RACCs in some food categories to reflect portions that people typically eat at one time, the vitamin and mineral density of these foods may be affected adversely. In totality, the United States is entering an era in which the need to monitor dietary intake patterns and nutritional status is unprecedented. labels: #Minerals'
b'In this work, wheat bread was fortified with fibre enriched extracts recovered from agroindustry by-products, namely, elderberry skin, pulp and seeds (EE); orange peel (OE); pomegranate peel and interior membranes (PE); and spent yeast (YE). The impact of this fortification on the total and bioaccessible mineral composition of wheat breads, estimated mineral daily intake, and the relationship between bioaccessibility and dietary fibre was evaluated. Fortification with OE, EE, and PE improved the content of essential minerals in bread when compared to control bread. The exception was bread fortified with YE, which presented a mineral content similar to control bread, but its mineral bioaccessibility was significantly higher than in all the other bread formulations. The opposite was observed for PE bread, which presented a significant reduction of bioaccessible minerals. We concluded that the origin of the fibre rich extract must be carefully selected, to avoid potential negative impact on mineral bioaccessibility. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Many experimental studies have suggested an important role for barley Rihane(BR)in the prevention of colon cancer and cardiovascular diseases. The objective of this study was to evaluate the physico-chemical properties and nutritional characterizations of BR compared to other varieties grown in Tunisia (Manel, Roho and Tej).MATERIAL AND METHODS: Total, insoluble and soluble dietary fiber(\xce\xb2-glucan), total protein, ash and some minerals of BR and Tunisian barley varieties were determined.RESULTS: The results revealed that BR is good source of dietary fiber mainly \xce\xb2-glucan compared to the other varieties. This variety is a relatively rich source of phosphorous and potassium and it contains many important unsaturated fatty acids. BR has higher nutritional value than other varieties.CONCLUSION: Barley Rihane has significant nutritional characterizations compared to others Tunisian barleys varieties.Abbreviations:BR, Barley Rihane; LDL, low density lipoprotein; HDL, high density lipoprotein; AOM, azoxymethane; TBV, Tunisian barley varieties; TGW, thousand grain weight; SW, weight specific; TDF, total dietary fiber; IDF, insoluble dietary fiber; SDF, soluble dietary fiber; DM, Dry Matter. labels: #Minerals'
b'Through the input of disproportionate quantities of chemically distinct litter, invasive plants may potentially influence the fate of organic matter associated with soil mineral and aggregate fractions in some of the ecosystems they invade. Although context dependent, these native ecosystems subjected to prolonged invasion by exotic plants may be instrumental in distinguishing the role of plant-microbe-mineral interactions from the broader edaphic and climatic influences on the formation of soil organic matter (SOM). We hypothesized that the soils subjected to prolonged invasion by an exotic plant that input recalcitrant litter (Japanese knotweed, Polygonum cuspidatum) would have a greater proportion of plant-derived carbon (C) in the aggregate fractions, as compared with that in adjacent soil inhabited by native vegetation that input labile litter, whereas the soils under an invader that input labile litter (kudzu, Pueraria lobata) would have a greater proportion of microbial-derived C in the silt-clay fraction, as compared with that in adjacent soils that receive recalcitrant litter. At the knotweed site, the higher C content in soils under P.\xc2\xa0cuspidatum, compared with noninvaded soils inhabited by grasses and forbs, was limited to the macroaggregate fraction, which was abundant in plant biomarkers. The noninvaded soils at this site had a higher abundance of lignins in mineral and microaggregate fractions and suberin in the macroaggregate fraction, partly because of the greater root density of the native species, which might have had an overriding influence on the chemistry of the above-ground litter input. At the kudzu site, soils under P.\xc2\xa0lobata had lower C content across all size fractions at a 0-5\xc2\xa0cm soil depth despite receiving similar amounts of Pinus litter. Contrary to our prediction, the noninvaded soils receiving recalcitrant Pinus litter had a similar abundance of plant biomarkers across both mineral and aggregate fractions, potentially because of the higher surface area of soil minerals at this site. The plant biomarkers were lower in the aggregate fractions of the P.\xc2\xa0lobata-invaded soils, compared with noninvaded pine stands, potentially suggesting a microbial co-metabolism of pine-derived compounds. These results highlight the complex interactions among litter chemistry, soil biota, and minerals in mediating soil C storage in unmanaged ecosystems; these interactions are particularly important under global changes that may alter plant species composition and hence the quantity and chemistry of litter inputs in terrestrial ecosystems. labels: #Minerals'
b'The phosphorus (P) fraction distribution and formation mechanism in the supernatant after P adsorption onto iron oxides and iron oxide-humic acid (HA) complexes were analyzed using the ultrafiltration method in this study. With an initial P concentration of 20mg/L (I=0.01mol/L and pH=7), it was shown that the colloid (1kDa-0.45\xce\xbcm) component of P accounted for 10.6%, 11.6%, 6.5%, and 4.0% of remaining total P concentration in the supernatant after P adsorption onto ferrihydrite (FH), goethite (GE), ferrihydrite-humic acid complex (FH-HA), goethite-humic acid complex (GE-HA), respectively. The<1kDa component of P was still the predominant fraction in the supernatant, and underestimated colloidal P accounted for 2.2%, 55.1%, 45.5%, and 38.7% of P adsorption onto the solid surface of FH, FH-HA, GE and GE-HA, respectively. Thus, the colloid P could not be neglected. Notably, it could be interpreted that Fe3+hydrolysis from the adsorbents followed by the formation of colloidal hydrous ferric oxide aggregates was the main mechanism for the formation of the colloid P in the supernatant. And colloidal adsorbent particles co-existing in the supernatant were another important reason for it. Additionally, dissolve organic matter dissolved from iron oxide-HA complexes could occupy large adsorption sites of colloidal iron causing less colloid P in the supernatant. Ultimately, we believe that the findings can provide a new way to deeply interpret the geochemical cycling of P, even when considering other contaminants such as organic pollutants, heavy metal ions, and arsenate at the sediment/soil-water interface in the real environment. labels: #Minerals'
b'Interactions between anions and cations are important for understanding the behaviors of chemical pollutants and their potential risks in the environment. Here we prepared soil aggregates of a yellow paddy soil from the Taihu Lake region, and investigated the effects of phosphate (P) pretreatment on adsorption-desorption of Cu2+of soil aggregates, free iron oxyhydrates-removed soil aggregates, goethite, and kaolinite with batch adsorption method. The results showed that Cu2+adsorption was reduced on the aggregates pretreated with low concentrations of P, and promoted with high concentrations of P, showing a V-shaped change. Compared with the untreated aggregates, the adsorption capacity of Cu2+was reduced when P application rates were lower than 260, 220, 130 and 110mg/kg for coarse, clay, silt and fine sand fractions, respectively. On the contrary, the adsorption capacity of Cu2+was higher on P-pretreated soil aggregates than on the control ones when P application rates were greater than those values. However, the desorption of Cu2+was enhanced at low levels of P, but suppressed at high levels of P, displaying an inverted V-shaped change over P adsorption. The Cu2+adsorption by the aggregate particles with and without P pretreatments was well described by the Freundlich equation. Similar results were obtained on P-pretreated goethite. However, such P effects on Cu2+adsorption-desorption were not observed on kaolinite and free iron oxyhydrates-removed soil aggregates. The present results indicate that goethite is one of the main soil substances responsible for the P-induced promotion and inhibition of Cu2+adsorption. labels: #Minerals'
b'Simultaneous adsorption modeling of four ions was predicted with a strict net charge-neutral ion-exchange theory and its corresponding equilibrium and mass balance equations. An important key to the success of this approach was the proper collection of all the data, particularly the proton adsorption data, and the inclusion of variable concentrations of conjugate ions from the experimental pH adjustments. Using IExFit software, the ion-exchange model used here predicted the competitive retention of several ions on goethite by assuming that the co-adsorption or desorption of all ions occurred in the correct stoichiometries needed to maintain electroneutrality. This approach also revealed that the retention strength of Cl- ions on goethite increases in the presence of phthalate ions. That is, an anion-anion enhancement effect was observed. The retention of Cl- ions was much weaker than phthalate ions, and this also resulted in a higher sensitivity of the Cl- ions toward minor variations in the surface reactivity. The proposed model uses four goethite surface sites. The drop in retention of phthalate ions at low pH was fully described here as resulting from competitive Cl- reactions, which were introduced in increasing concentrations into the matrix as the conjugate base to the acid added to lower the pH. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study evaluated intake, microbial efficiency, and ruminal, small and large intestinal, and total digestibility of DM, OM, CP, and NDF, as well as availability of Ca, P, Mg, Na, K, Cu, Mn, and Zn in Zebu cattle fed with or without supplemental sources of Ca and P or a micromineral premix. Five rumen- and ileum-cannulated Nellore bulls (BW = 200 \xc2\xb1 10.5 kg; 9 mo) were used in the experiment, distributed in a 5 \xc3\x97 5 Latin square design. The experiment was developed in a 2 \xc3\x97 2 + 1 factorial design to measure the effects of mineral supplementation on intake, digestibility, and site of nutrient absorption. The factors consisted of 2 Ca and P levels (macromineral factor; CaP+ or CaP-) and 2 microminerals levels (micromineral factor; CuMnZn+ or CuMnZn-). In addition, a treatment with alimentary restriction (REST) was evaluated at 1.7% of BW. Nutrient fluxes were measured in the omasum and ileum, in addition to intake and fecal excretion. Microbial efficiency was estimated using purine derivative excretion. Dry matter, OM, NDF, CP intake, and total digestibility were not affected ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.058) by the absence of Ca, P, Cu, Mn, and Zn supplementation. Intake of Ca, P, and Mg were reduced (<0.01) by CaP-. The absence of CuMnZn reduced (<0.01) Cu, Mn, and Zn intake. Ruminal recycling of P, Na, and K is significant for increasing the influx of these minerals to the digestive tract; however, influences of treatments were not observed. The small and large intestines contributed to mineral absorption in different proportions (<0.05), according to minerals and treatments. Because of the similarity (>0.05) of OM, NDF, and CP digestion sites and coefficients, we assume that omitting supplemental sources of Ca, P, Cu, Mn, and Zn may be an option in raising cattle on feedlots. If supplementation is viable, knowledge about the specific absorption site of each mineral could positively impact choices about the supplemental source. labels: #Minerals'
b'Weaned Nellore bulls ( = 36; 274 \xc2\xb1 34 kg) were used in a randomized block design with a 2 \xc3\x97 2 factorial arrangement of treatments to evaluate intake, fecal excretion, and performance with different concentrations of minerals. Experimental diets were formulated with 2 concentrations of Ca and P (macromineral factor; diet supplying 100% of Ca and P according to BR-CORTE () [CaP+] or diet without limestone and dicalcium phosphate [CaP-]) and 2 concentrations of microminerals (micromineral factor; diet with supplementation of microminerals [Zn, Mn, and Cu; CuMnZn+] or diet without supplementation of microminerals [Zn, Mn, and Cu; CuMnZn-]). The factor CaP- was formulated without the addition of limestone and dicalcium phosphate, and the factor CuMnZn- was formulated without inorganic supplementation of microminerals (premix). The diets were isonitrogenous (13.3% CP). Intake was individually monitored every day. Indigestible NDF was used as an internal marker for digestibility estimates. The bulls were slaughtered (84 or 147 d on feed), and then carcass characteristics were measured and liver and rib samples were collected. Feed, feces, rib bones, and liver samples were analyzed for DM, ash, CP, ether extract (EE), Ca, P, Zn, Mn, and Cu. There were no significant interactions ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.06) between macro- and micromineral supplementation for any variables in the study. Calcium, P, and micromineral concentrations did not affect ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.20) intake of DM, OM, NDF, EE, CP, TDN, and nonfiber carbohydrates (NFC). Calcium and P intake were affected (<0.01) by macromineral factor. Animals fed without Ca and P supplementation consumed less of these minerals. Dry matter and nutrient fecal excretion (OM, NDF, EE, CP, and NFC) were similar ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.23) among all factors. Performance and carcass characteristics were similar ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.09) among diets. The content of ash in rib bones was not affected by diets ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.06). Plasma P and phosphatase alkaline concentrations were similar ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.52) among diets. Supplementation of microminerals decreased (<0.01) plasma Ca concentration; nevertheless, all analyzed blood metabolites were within the reference values. Supplementation of Ca and P increased (<0.01) fecal excretion of these minerals. These results indicate that mineral supplementation (Ca, P, Zn, Mn, and Cu) of conventional feedlot diets for Nellore bulls may be not necessary. Dietary reductions in these minerals would represent a decrease in the cost of feedlot diets. Dietary reduction in Ca and P content cause a decrease in fecal excretion of these minerals, which, in turn, represents an opportunity to reduce the environmental impact of feedlot operations. labels: #Minerals'
b'Our objective was to evaluate the effect of Cu, Zn, and Mn source on measures of 1) preferential intake of mineral-concentrated supplements and 2) mineral status and pre- and postweaning performance of beef calves. In Exp. 1, 4 trials were conducted to assess the effect of source of Cu (750 mg/kg; Trial 1), Zn (2,000 mg/kg; Trial 2), Mn (3,000 mg/kg; Trial 3), and all 3 elements (Trial 4) on preferential intake of mineral-concentrated supplements. Supplements differed only by source of Cu, Zn, and Mn, which included hydroxychloride (hydroxy), sulfate, and organic options. In each trial, the 3 supplements were simultaneously offered to 8 pens of early-weaned calves (2 calves/pen; 126 \xc2\xb1 8.0 kg average BW) for a 4-h period and preferential intake was determined. When offered the opportunity to select among 3 supplement options, calves consumed more (<0.001) supplement containing hydroxy vs. organic or sulfate sources of Cu (Trial 1), Zn (Trial 2), and Mn (Trial 3). In Trial 4, when all 3 elements were combined within a single supplement, calves almost exclusively selected (<0.001) the hydroxy vs. organic or sulfate sources (82.9, 10.4, and 6.7% of total supplement intake, respectively [SEM 3.16]). In Exp. 2, calves were supplemented at a rate of 114 g/calf daily for 84 d before weaning (2 calves/pasture; 10 and 12 pastures in yr 1 and 2, respectively). Supplements were formulated to contain no supplemental minerals (control); hydroxy Cu, Zn, and Mn; or copper sulfate, zinc sulfate, and manganese oxide (sulfate/oxide). Total supplement intake was greater ( = 0.01) for calves consuming the hydroxy vs. the sulfate/oxide sources of Cu, Zn, and Mn (9.0 vs. 7.2 kg [SEM 0.45]). Preweaning calf BW gain did not differ ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.15) among treatments; however, calves provided mineral-fortified supplements had greater ( = 0.003) liver concentrations of Co and Se and tended ( = 0.07) to have greater liver concentrations of Cu at weaning compared with the controls. Calves provided mineral-fortified vs. control supplements had greater ( \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) peak concentrations of ceruloplasmin and haptoglobin and less BW gain during in the 16-d postweaning period. These data demonstrate greater voluntary intake of mineral-concentrated supplements among calves offered hydroxy vs. sulfate or organic sources of Cu, Zn, and Mn. Preweaning mineral-fortified supplementation increased calf mineral status, heightened inflammatory responsiveness, and decreased BW gain during the immediate postweaning period. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objectives of this study were to quantify the mineral balance of Nellore cattle fed with and without Ca, P, and micromineral (MM) supplementation and to estimate the net and dietary mineral requirement for cattle. Nellore cattle ( = 51; 270.4 \xc2\xb1 36.6 kg initial BW and 8 mo age) were assigned to 1 of 3 groups: reference ( = 5), maintenance ( = 4), and performance ( = 42). The reference group was slaughtered prior to the experiment to estimate initial body composition. The maintenance group was used to collect values of animals at low gain and reduced mineral intake. The performance group was assigned to 1 of 6 treatments: sugarcane as the roughage source with a concentrate supplement composed of soybean meal and soybean hulls with and without Ca, P, and MM supplementation; sugarcane as the roughage source with a concentrate supplement composed of soybean meal and ground corn with and without Ca, P, and MM supplementation; and corn silage as the roughage source with a concentrate supplement composed of soybean meal and ground corn with and without Ca, P, and MM supplementation. Orthogonal contrasts were adopted to compare mineral intake, fecal and urinary excretion, and apparent retention among treatments. Maintenance requirements and true retention coefficients were generated with the aid of linear regression between mineral intake and mineral retention. Mineral composition of the body and gain requirements was assessed using nonlinear regression between body mineral content and mineral intake. Mineral intake and fecal and urinary excretion were measured. Intakes of Ca, P, S, Cu, Zn, Mn, Co, and Fe were reduced in the absence of Ca, P, and MM supplementation (<0.05). Fecal excretion of Ca, Cu, Zn, Mn, and Co was also reduced in treatments without supplementation (<0.01). Overall, excretion and apparent absorption and retention coefficients were reduced when minerals were not supplied (<0.05). The use of the true retention coefficient instead of the true absorption coefficient provided a better estimate of mineral requirements. Dietary mineral requirements were lower for P, Cu, and Zn and greater for Fe compared with previously published recommendations. This study provides useful information about mineral requirements and mineral supplementation to obtain adequate dietary mineral supply of Nellore cattle in tropical conditions. labels: #Minerals'
b'In the frame of a research project on microscopic distribution and speciation of geogenic thallium (Tl) from contaminated mine soils, Tl-bearing pyrite ore samples from Riotinto mining district (Huelva, SW Spain) were experimentally fired to simulate a roasting process. Concentration and volatility behavior of Tl and other toxic heavy metals was determined by quantitative ICP-MS, whereas semi-quantitative mineral phase transitions were identified by in situ thermo X-Ray Diffraction (HT-XRD) and Scanning Electron Microscopy with Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (SEM-EDS) analyses after each firing temperature. Sample with initial highest amount of quartz (higher Si content), lowest quantity of pyrite and traces of jarosite (lower S content) developed hematite and concentrated Tl (from 10 up to 72\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1) after roasting at 900\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C in an oxidizing atmosphere. However, samples with lower or absent quartz content and higher pyrite amount mainly developed magnetite, accumulating Tl between 400 and 500\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C and releasing Tl from 700 up to 900\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C (from 10-29\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1down to 4-1\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1). These results show the varied accumulative, or volatile, behaviors of one of the most toxic elements for life and environment, in which oxidation of Tl-bearing Fe sulfides produce Fe oxides wastes with or without Tl. The initial chemistry and mineralogy of pyrite ores should be taken into account in coal-fired power stations, cement or sulfuric acid production industry involving pyrite roasting processes, and steel, brick or paint industries, which use iron ore from roasted pyrite ash, where large amounts of Tl entail significant environmental pollution. labels: #Minerals'
b'Increasing interests in carbon dots (CDs) research resulted in the increased production of CDs and the risk to be released into the environment, including surface water and groundwater. To assess the environmental behavior of CDs, the stability of CDs in aqueous solutions were first examined by different environmental conditions, followed by the systematic investigation of the adsorption behaviors of CDs onto Al2O3surface. Electrostatic interactions were considered as the dominant forces in CDs adsorption onto Al2O3process, which were further confirmed by controlling experiments as compared with other minerals or oxides, such as montmorillonite, kaolinite and SiO2. Theoretical calculations and characterization of Al2O3/CDs revealed chemisorptions exist in the adsorption process. Our investigation results provided fundamental understanding towards the interaction of CDs with Al2O3surface, and potential fate of CDs under natural conditions in aquatic environment, as well as in soils and sediments. labels: #Minerals'
b'Soil organic matter (SOM) is generally treated as a static compartment of soil in pollutant fate studies. However, SOM might be altered or fractionated in soil systems, and the details of SOM property/composition changes when coupled with contaminant behavior are unknown. In this study, a mild acid treatment was adopted to remove reactive minerals and partially remove SOM components. After acid treatment, biomarker signatures showed that lignin-derived phenols were released and black carbon (as suggested by benzene-polycarboxylic acids) and lipids were enriched. The biomarker information was consistent with common bulk chemical characterization. The sorption coefficient Kdfor PHE was two times higher after acid treatment, whereas Kdfor OFL was three times lower. The organic carbon normalized sorption coefficient KOCvalues for PHE were higher for soils after acid treatment, indicating stronger interactions between PHE and SOM. The linear regression line between Kdand fOCfor OFL showed lower intercepts and slopes after reactive mineral removal, suggesting a decreased contribution of minerals and reduced dependence on SOM. These results were attributed to the release of polar compositions in SOM accompanied by reactive mineral removal. Our results suggest that the mobility of ionic organic contaminants increases, whereas that of hydrophobic organic contaminants decreases after acid treatment with respect to reactive mineral depletion. This study emphasized that new insights into the coupling of SOM dynamics should be incorporated into organic contaminant behavior studies. SOM molecular biomarkers offer a useful technique for correlating SOM composition and sorption property changes. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study investigates the interaction of persulfate with soil components and chlorinated volatile organic compounds (CVOCs), using thermally activated persulfate oxidation in three soil types: high sand content; high clay content; and paddy field soil. The effect of soil composition on the available oxidant demand and CVOC removal rate was evaluated. Results suggest that the treatment efficiency of CVOCs in soil can be ranked as follows: cis-1,2-dichloroethene>trichloroethylene>1,2-dichloroethane>1,1,1-trichloroethane. The reactions of soil components with persulfate, shown by the reduction in soil phase natural organics and mineral content, occurred in parallel with persulfate oxidation of CVOCs. Natural oxidant demand from the reaction of soil components with persulfate exerted a large relative contribution to the total oxidant demand. The main influencing factor in oxidant demand in paddy-soil-persulfate systems was natural organics, rather than mineral content as seen with sand and clay soil types exposed to the persulfate system. The competition between CVOCs and soil components for oxidation by persulfate indicates that soil composition exhibits a considerable influence on the available oxidant demand and CVOC removal efficiency. Therefore, soil composition of natural organics and mineral content is a critical factor in estimating the oxidation efficiency of in-situ remediation systems. labels: #Minerals'
b'The levels of the minerals: Ca, K, Mg, Na, P, and the trace elements: Cd, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, Se, Zn were determined in foods for 4-6, 7+ and 10+ months old babies in a brand available on the UK market. The mineral contents in the vegetarian meals for all the age groups were similar, in contrast, when compared to the non-vegetarian options, the Ca, Na and P levels were higher in the former. Both the trace elements and minerals levels in the 4-6months vegetarian meal were the lowest of all the products analysed. The Cu, Se and Zn levels in all the meals were comparable to those in mature human breast milk. Calculations of the following molar ratios: Zn:Cu, Fe:Zn, and Fe:Mn, pairs of elements that have been shown to interaction antagonistically, were higher in the vegetarian meals. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mutations in the renal sodium-dependent phosphate co-transporters NPT2a and NPT2c have been reported in patients with renal stone disease and nephrocalcinosis, but the relative contribution of genotype, dietary calcium and phosphate to the formation of renal mineral deposits is unclear. We previously reported that renal calcium phosphate deposits persist and/or reappear in older Npt2a-/- mice supplemented with phosphate despite resolution of hypercalciuria while no deposits are seen in wild-type (WT) mice on the same diet. Addition of calcium to their diets further increased calcium phosphate deposits in Npt2a-/-, but not WT mice. The response of PTH to dietary phosphate of Npt2a-/- was blunted when compared to WT mice and the response of the urinary calcium x phosphorus product to the addition of calcium and phosphate to the diet of Npt2a-/- was increased. These finding suggests that Npt2a-/- mice respond differently to dietary phosphate when compared to WT mice. Further evaluation in the Npt2a-/- cohort on different diets suggests that urinary calcium excretion, plasma phosphate and FGF23 levels appear to be positively correlated to renal mineral deposit formation while urine phosphate levels and the urine anion gap, an indirect measure of ammonia excretion, appear to be inversely correlated. Our observations in Npt2a-/- mice, if confirmed in humans, may be relevant for the optimization of existing and the development of novel therapies to prevent nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis in human carriers of NPT2a and NPT2c mutations. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study evaluated the nutritional interrelationship between the growing and finishing phases of crossbred cattle in determining their performance. One hundred and eight animals were used (8\xc2\xa0months old, body weight [BW] 211\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa020\xc2\xa0kg). During the dry season, the animals received one of the following supplements: a mineral plus urea supplement (ad libitum, MSD), a protein supplement (1\xc2\xa0g/kg BW per day, PR1), or a protein-energy supplement (5\xc2\xa0g/kg BW per day, PE). During the rainy season, the animals received one of the following supplements: a mineral without urea supplement (ad libitum, MSR), a protein supplement (1\xc2\xa0g/kg BW per day, PR2), or PE (5\xc2\xa0g/kg BW per day). The experimental design was completely randomized using a 3\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa03 factorial scheme (for the rainy season) and a 3\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa03\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa02 factorial scheme (for the finishing phase). The supplementation and finishing systems were considered to be the treatments, and the animals were considered to be the experimental units. Dry season supplementation did not affect the average daily gain (ADG) during the rainy season (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.12) or the finishing phase (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.73). An increase in the level of rainy season supplementation reduced ADG by 12% during the finishing phase (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.06). Providing PE during the dry and rainy seasons led to the animals being slaughtered 17 (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.06) and 30 (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01) days earlier, respectively. Our results indicate that supplementation during the dry season (under poor-quality pasture conditions) does not affect the performance during the rainy season or the finishing phase. Furthermore, while providing PE during the rainy season can reduce ADG during finishing, the higher BW at the beginning of the finishing phase is sufficient to reduce the time of the finishing period. labels: #Minerals'
b'The effects of purified salt (PS) and mineral-rich sea salt (MRS), both with different mineral profiles, on kimchi fermentation were studied using a culture-dependent 16S rRNA sequencing technique and mass-based metabolomic analysis. The different mineral profiles in the fermentation medium caused changes in the bacterial profiles of the 2 kimchi products. An increase of Leuconostoc species in MRS-kimchi decreased the Lactobacillus/Leuconostoc ratio, which led to changes in metabolites (including sugars, amino acids, organic acids, lipids, sulfur compounds, and terpenoids) associated with kimchi quality. Although further studies on the relationship between these salt types and kimchi fermentation are needed, these results suggested that the MRS treatment had positively affected the changes of the kimchi mineral contents, bacterial growth, and metabolite profiles, which are linked to kimchi quality. labels: #Minerals'
b'In this work, single crystalline \xce\xb1-Fe2O3nanoflakes (NFs) are formed in a highly dense array by Au seeding of a Fe substrate by a thermal oxidation technique. The NFs are conformally decorated with a thin FeOOH cocatalyst layer. Photoelectrochemical (PEC) measurements show that this photoanode, incorporating \xce\xb1-Fe2O3/FeOOH NFs rooted on the Au/Fe structure, exhibits significantly enhanced PEC water oxidation performance compared to the plain \xce\xb1-Fe2O3nanostructure on the Fe substrate. The \xce\xb1-Fe2O3/FeOOH NFs on Au/Fe photoanode yields a photocurrent density of 3.1\xe2\x80\x85mA\xe2\x80\x89cm-2at 1.5\xe2\x80\x85VRHE, and a remarkably low onset potential of 0.5-0.6\xe2\x80\x85VRHEin 1\xe2\x80\x89m KOH under AM\xe2\x80\x851.5G (100\xe2\x80\x85mW\xe2\x80\x89cm-2) simulated sunlight illumination. The enhancement in PEC performance can be attributed to a synergistic effect of the FeOOH top decoration and the Au underlayer, whereby FeOOH facilitates hole transfer at the interface of electrode/electrolyte and the Au layer provides a sink for the electron transport to the back contact. This results in a drastically improved charge-separation efficiency in the single crystalline \xce\xb1-Fe2O3NF photoanode. labels: #Minerals'
b'Concerns about global warming phenomena induced the development of research about the control of anthropogenic greenhouse gases emissions. The current work studies on the scaling up of aqueous mineral carbonation route to reduce the CO2emissions at the chimney of industrial emitters. The reactivity of serpentinite in a stirred tank reactor was studied for several partial pressures of CO2(pCO2) (0.4, 0.7, 1.3 and 1.6\xc2\xa0bar). Prior to carbonation, the feedstock was finely grinded and dehydroxyled at 650\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C by a thermal treatment. The major content of magnetite was removed (7.5\xc2\xa0wt% \xc2\xb7 total weight-1). Experiments were carried out under batch mode at room temperature using real cement plant flue gas (14-18\xc2\xa0vol% CO2) and open pit drainage water. The effect of the raw water and the pCO2on the carbonation efficiency was measured. First, the main results showed a positive effect of the quarry water as a slight enhancement of the Mg leaching in comparison with distilled water. Secondly, a pCO2of 1.3\xc2\xa0bar was the optimal working pressure which provided the highest efficiency of the carbonation reaction (0.8 gCO2\xc2\xb7 g residue-1). Precipitation rates of dissolved CO2ranged from 7% to 33%. Pure precipitate was obtained and essentially composed of Nesquehonite. At a pCO2of 1.3\xc2\xa0bar, additional physical retreatment of the solid material after being contacted with 6 batches of gas enhanced considerably mineral carbonation efficiency (0.17 gCO2\xc2\xb7 g residue-1.). labels: #Minerals'
b'In mining environmental applications, it is important to assess water quality from waste rock piles (WRPs) and estimate the likelihood of acid rock drainage (ARD) over time. The mineralogical heterogeneity of WRPs is a source of uncertainty in this assessment, undermining the reliability of traditional bulk indicators used in the industry. We focused in this work on the bulk neutralizing potential ratio (NPR), which is defined as the ratio of the content of non-acid-generating minerals (typically reactive carbonates such as calcite) to the content of potentially acid-generating minerals (typically sulfides such as pyrite). We used a streamtube-based Monte-Carlo method to show why and to what extent bulk NPR can be a poor indicator of ARD occurrence. We simulated ensembles of WRPs identical in their geometry and bulk NPR, which only differed in their initial distribution of the acid generating and acid neutralizing minerals that control NPR. All models simulated the same principal acid-producing, acid-neutralizing and secondary mineral forming processes. We show that small differences in the distribution of local NPR values or the number of flow paths that generate acidity strongly influence drainage pH. The results indicate that the likelihood of ARD (epitomized by the probability of occurrence of pH<4 in a mixing boundary) within the first 100years can be as high as 75% for a NPR=2 and 40% for NPR=4. The latter is traditionally considered as a "universally safe" threshold to ensure non-acidic waters in practical applications. Our results suggest that new methods that explicitly account for mineralogical heterogeneity must be sought when computing effective (upscaled) NPR values at the scale of the piles. labels: #Minerals'
b"Aromatic halophyte plants are an outstanding source of bioactive compounds and natural products with potential use in the food industry. This work reports the in\xc2\xa0vitro antioxidant activity, toxicity, polyphenolic profile and mineral contents of infusions and decoctions from stems, leaves and flowers of Crithmum maritimum L., an aromatic and edible maritime halophyte (sea fennel). Aspalathus linearis (Burm.f.) Dahlg. (rooibos) herbal tea was used as a reference. Sea fennel's tisanes, particularly from leaves, were rich in phenolic compounds and five of them (p-hydroxybenzoic and ferulic acids, epicatechin, pyrocatechol and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde) were here described in C.\xc2\xa0maritimum for the first time. Chlorogenic acid was the dominant phenolic determined. Na was the most abundant mineral in all tisanes followed by Ca and Mg in leaves' tisanes and K in flowers. Sea fennel's samples had a similar antioxidant activity than those from A.\xc2\xa0linearis, and had no significant toxicity towards four different mammalian cell lines. Altogether, our results suggest that sea fennel can be a source of products and/or molecules for the food industry with antioxidant properties and minerals in the form, for example, of innovative health-promoting herbal beverages. labels: #Minerals"
b'The aim of this study was to examine usual daily micronutrient intake of Chinese children based on data from the 2011 China Health and Nutrition Survey. We analyzed data from 4 to 17-year-old participants, who provided dietary data on three consecutive days combined with the household weighing method in 2011. Usual daily intake of each nutrient was estimated using a mixed effects model based on the China Food Composition published in 2009. The means, medians and percentages below Estimated Average Requirements (EAR) were reported for selected micronutrients, including calcium, sodium, potassium, iron, zinc, selenium, vitamin A, thiamine, riboflavin and vitamin C. For sodium and potassium, the means and the distribution of intakes were compared to the Adequate Intake (AI) level. The average usual daily intakes of all micronutrients increase with age, and the intakes of boys were found to be higher than girls in the same age group. The average calcium intake increased from 272 mg/day in 4-6 years to 391 mg/day in 14-17 years, but the percentage of inadequate calcium intake remained very high (>96%). The prevalence of inadequacy of calcium was the highest among the mineral nutrients reported in this study. As the requirements of micronutrients increased with age, the percentage of subjects with inadequate intake increased in the 11-17 years age groups. Among 14-17 years group, the percentages of study participants with dietary intakes of calcium, iron, zinc, selenium, vitamin A, thiamine, riboflavin and vitamin C below the EAR were 96.8%, 18.8%, 37.6%, 72.8%, 36.8%, 91.8%. 85.9% and 75.5%, respectively. Among 11-13 years group, the percentages of study participants with dietary intakes of iron, zinc and vitamin A below the EAR were 23.5%, 41.5%, and 41.6%, respectively. Thus, micronutrient deficiency is a problem in Chinese children. Nutrition education and intervention programs are needed to address these nutritional gaps. labels: #Minerals'
b'The adsorption of diclofenac (DCF), one of the widely used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, onto the surface of goethite was investigated with batch experiments. The adsorption at different pH values (5.3, 7.4, and 10.0) were well fitted with the pseudo-second-order model. The results showed that the adsorption of DCF onto goethite was strongly depended on solution pH. The amount of adsorbed DCF decreased with increasing pH duo to electrostatic repulsive interactions. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) results indicated that carboxyl group (COOH) might be involved in the adsorption, and DCF formed bidentate chelate and bridging bidentate complexes on the surface of goethite. labels: #Minerals'
b'We present an enhanced continuum-based approach for the modelling of groundwater flow coupled with reactive transport in crystalline fractured rocks. In the proposed formulation, flow, transport and geochemical parameters are represented onto a numerical grid using Discrete Fracture Network (DFN) derived parameters. The geochemical reactions are further constrained by field observations of mineral distribution. To illustrate how the approach can be used to include physical and geochemical complexities into reactive transport calculations, we have analysed the potential ingress of oxygenated glacial-meltwater in a heterogeneous fractured rock using the Forsmark site (Sweden) as an example. The results of high-performance reactive transport calculations show that, after a quick oxygen penetration, steady state conditions are attained where abiotic reactions (i.e. the dissolution of chlorite and the homogeneous oxidation of aqueous iron(II) ions) counterbalance advective oxygen fluxes. The results show that most of the chlorite becomes depleted in the highly conductive deformation zones where higher mineral surface areas are available for reactions. labels: #Minerals'
b"In this study, nanoscale zero valent iron I-NZVI was investigated as a remediation strategy for uranium contaminated groundwater from the former Cimarron Fuel Fabrication Site in Oklahoma, USA. The 1\xc2\xa0L batch-treatment system was applied in the study. The result shows that 99.9% of uranium in groundwater was removed by I-NZVI within 2\xc2\xa0h. Uranium concentration in the groundwater stayed around 27\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/L, and there was no sign of uranium release into groundwater after seven days of reaction time. Meanwhile the release of iron was significantly decreased compared to NZVI which can reduce the treatment impact on the water environment. To study the influence of background pH of the treatment system on removal efficiency of uranium, the groundwater was adjusted from pH 2-10 before the addition of I-NZVI. The pH of the groundwater was from 2.1 to 10.7 after treatment. The removal efficiency of uranium achieved a maximum in neutral pH of groundwater. The desorption of uranium on the residual solid phase after treatment was investigated in order to discuss the stability of uranium on residual solids. After 2\xc2\xa0h of leaching, 0.07% of the total uranium on residual solid phase was leached out in a HNO3leaching solution with a pH of 4.03. The concentration of uranium in the acid leachate was under 3.2\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/L which is below the EPA's maximum contaminant level of 30\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/L. Otherwise, the concentration of uranium was negligible in distilled water leaching solution (pH\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa06.44) and NaOH leaching solution (pH\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.52). A desorption study shows that an acceptable amount of uranium on the residuals can be released into water system under strong acid conditions in short terms. For long term disposal management of the residual solids, the leachate needs to be monitored and treated before discharge into a hazardous landfill or the water system. For the first time, I-NZVI was applied for the treatment of uranium contaminated groundwater. These results provide proof that I-NZVI has improved performance compared to NZVI and is a promising technology for the restoration of complex uranium contaminated water resources. labels: #Minerals"
b'The characterization of trace elements in minerals using extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy constitutes a first step toward understanding how impurities and contaminants interact with the host phase and the environment. However, limitations to EXAFS interpretation complicate the analysis of trace concentrations of impurities that are distributed across multiple phases in a heterogeneous system. Ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD)-informed EXAFS analysis was employed to investigate the immobilization of trace uranium associated with nanophase iron (oxyhydr)oxides, a model system for the geochemical sequestration of radiotoxic actinides. The reductive transformation of ferrihydrite [Fe(OH)3] to nanoparticulate iron oxyhydroxide minerals in the presence of uranyl (UO2)2+(aq)resulted in the preferential incorporation of U into goethite (\xce\xb1-FeOOH) over lepidocrocite (\xce\xb3-FeOOH), even though reaction conditions favored the formation of excess lepidocrocite. This unexpected result is supported by atomically resolved transmission electron microscopy. We demonstrate how AIMD-informed EXAFS analysis lifts the strict statistical limitations and uncertainty of traditional shell-by-shell EXAFS fitting, enabling the detailed characterization of the local bonding environment, charge compensation mechanisms, and oxidation states of polyvalent impurities in complex multiphase mineral systems. labels: #Minerals'
b'Foods consist of a large number of different nutrients that are contained in a complex structure. The nature of the food structure and the nutrients therein (i.e., the food matrix) will determine the nutrient digestion and absorption, thereby altering the overall nutritional properties of the food. Thus, the food matrix may exhibit a different relation with health indicators compared to single nutrients studied in isolation. The evidence for a dairy matrix effect was presented and discussed by an expert panel at a closed workshop, and the following consensus was reached:1) Current evidence does not support a positive association between intake of dairy products and risk of cardiovascular disease (i.e., stroke and coronary heart disease) and type 2 diabetes. In contrast, fermented dairy products, such as cheese and yogurt, generally show inverse associations.2) Intervention studies have indicated that the metabolic effects of whole dairy may be different than those of single dairy constituents when considering the effects on body weight, cardiometabolic disease risk, and bone health.3) Different dairy products seem to be distinctly linked to health effects and disease risk markers.4) Different dairy structures and common processing methods may enhance interactions between nutrients in the dairy matrix, which may modify the metabolic effects of dairy consumption.5) In conclusion, the nutritional values of dairy products should not be considered equivalent to their nutrient contents but, rather, be considered on the basis of the biofunctionality of the nutrients within dairy food structures.6) Further research on the health effects of whole dairy foods is warranted alongside the more traditional approach of studying the health effects of single nutrients. Future diet assessments and recommendations should carefully consider the evidence of the effects of whole foods alongside the evidence of the effects of individual nutrients. Current knowledge gaps and recommendations for priorities in future research on dairy were identified and presented. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mineral binding is a major mechanism for soil carbon (C) stabilization, and mineral availability for C binding critically affects C storage. Yet, the mechanisms regulating mineral availability are poorly understood. Here, we showed that organic amendments in three long-term (23, 154, and 170 yrs, respectively) field experiments significantly increased mineral availability, particularly of short-range-ordered (SRO) phases. Two microcosm studies demonstrated that the presence of roots significantly increased mineral availability and promoted the formation of SRO phases. Mineral transformation experiments and isotopic labeling experiments provided direct evidence that citric acid, a major component of root exudates, promoted the formation of SRO minerals, and that SRO minerals acted as "nuclei" for C retention. Together, these findings indicate that soil organic amendments initialize a positive feedback loop by increasing mineral availability and promoting the formation of SRO minerals for further C binding, thereby possibly serving as a management tool for enhancing carbon storage in soils. labels: #Minerals'
b'Malnourished HIV-infected patients starting antiretroviral therapy (ART) are at high risk of early mortality, some of which may be attributed to altered electrolyte metabolism. We used data from a randomised controlled trial of electrolyte-enriched lipid-based nutritional supplements to assess the association of baseline and time-varying serum phosphate and K concentrations with mortality within the first 12 weeks after starting ART. Baseline phosphate results were available from 1764 patients and there were 9096 subsequent serum phosphate measurements, a median of 6 per patient. For serum K there were 1701 baseline and 8773 subsequent measures, a median of 6 per patient. Abnormally high or low serum phosphate was more common than high or low serum K. Controlling for other factors found to affect mortality in this cohort, low phosphate which had not changed from the previous time interval was associated with increased mortality; the same was not true for high phosphate or for high or low K. Both increases and decreases in serum electrolytes from the previous time interval were generally associated with increased mortality, particularly in the electrolyte-supplemented group. The results suggest that changes in serum electrolytes, largely irrespective of the starting point and the direction of change, were more strongly associated with mortality than were absolute electrolyte levels. Although K and phosphate are required for tissue deposition during recovery from malnutrition, further studies are needed to determine whether specific supplements exacerbate physiologically adverse shifts in electrolyte levels during nutritional rehabilitation of ill malnourished HIV patients. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Moringa oleifera (MO) and M. stenopetala (MS) (family Moringaceae; order Brassicales) are multipurpose tree/shrub species. They thrive under marginal environmental conditions and produce nutritious edible parts. The aim of this study was to determine the mineral composition of different parts of MO and MS growing in their natural environments and their potential role in alleviating human mineral micronutrient deficiencies (MND) in sub-Saharan Africa.METHODS: Edible parts of MO (n = 146) and MS (n = 50), co-occurring cereals/vegetables and soils (n = 95) underneath their canopy were sampled from localities in southern Ethiopia and Kenya. The concentrations of seven mineral elements, namely, calcium (Ca), copper (Cu), iodine (I), iron (Fe), magnesium (Mg), selenium (Se), and zinc (Zn) in edible parts and soils were determined using inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry.RESULTS: In Ethiopian crops, MS leaves contained the highest median concentrations of all elements except Cu and Zn, which were greater in Enset (a.k.a., false banana). In Kenya, Mo flowers and MS leaves had the highest median Se concentration of 1.56 mg kg-1 and 3.96 mg kg-1, respectively. The median concentration of Se in MS leaves was 7-fold, 10-fold, 23-fold, 117-fold and 147-fold more than that in brassica leaves, amaranth leaves, baobab fruits, sorghum grain and maize grain, respectively. The median Se concentration was 78-fold and 98-fold greater in MO seeds than in sorghum and maize grain, respectively. There was a strong relationship between soil total Se and potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KH2PO4)-extractable Se, and Se concentration in the leaves of MO and MS.CONCLUSION: This study confirms previous studies that Moringa is a good source of several of the measured mineral nutrients, and it includes the first wide assessment of Se and I concentrations in edible parts of MO and MS grown in various localities. Increasing the consumption of MO and MS, especially the leaves as a fresh vegetable or in powdered form, could reduce the prevalence of MNDs, most notably Se deficiency. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study was carried out to determine the physicochemical properties of giant embryo rice "Seonong 17" and "Keunnunjami" in comparison with the normal embryo rice. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that Seonong 17 and Keunnunjami have larger embryo and that starch granules from Keunnunjami were more tightly packed with smaller air spaces between granules. Seonong 17 exhibited the lowest amylose content. Keunnunjami showed the highest protein content, pasting temperature, peak and breakdown viscosities, and gelatinization temperature and enthalpy. Both giant embryo rice samples contained significantly higher amounts of essential amino acids and unsaturated fatty acids than the normal rice. Proteomic analysis using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed differences in the protein profile of Seonong 17 and Keunnunjami. The results could serve as baseline information in evaluating the quality of these two giant embryo rice cultivars and provide a better understanding of their potential uses and food industry applications. labels: #Minerals'
b'As an ecological unit, coarse woody debris (CWD) plays an essential role in productivity, nutrient cycling, carbon sequestration, community regeneration and biodiversity. However, thus far, the information on quantification the decomposition and nutrient content of CWD in forest ecosystems remains considerably limited. In this study, we conducted a long-term (1996-2013) study on decay and nutrient dynamics of CWD for evaluating accurately the ecological value of CWD on the Huoditang Experimental Forest Farm in the Qinling Mountains, China. The results demonstrated that there was a strong correlation between forest biomass and CWD mass. The single exponential decay model well fit the CWD density loss at this site, and as the CWD decomposed, the CWD density decreased significantly. Annual temperature and precipitation were all significantly correlated with the annual mass decay rate. The K contents and the C/N ratio of the CWD decreased as the CWD decayed, but the C, N, P, Ca and Mg contents increased. We observed a significant CWD decay effect on the soil C, N and Mg contents, especially the soil C content. The soil N, P, K, Ca and Mg contents exhibited large fluctuations, but the variation had no obvious regularity and changed with different decay times. The results showed that CWD was a critical component of nutrient cycling in forest ecosystems. Further research is needed to determine the effect of diameter, plant tissue components, secondary wood compounds, and decomposer organisms on the CWD decay rates in the Qinling Mountains, which will be beneficial to clarifying the role of CWD in carbon cycles of forest ecosystems. labels: #Minerals'
b'In predicting the acid-forming potential of rock samples, a combination of acid-base accounting (ABA) and net acid generation (NAG) tests has been commonly used. While simple and economical, this method sometimes shows low reliability such as categorizing certain samples as uncertain (UC). ABA and NAG tests were modified to selectively recover valid minerals in nature and substituted for the original tests. ABA test overestimated acid-producing capacity (in the case of weathered samples) and acid-neutralizing capacity (in the case of plagioclase-including samples) compared to the modified ABA test. NAG test yielded lower NAG pH compared to modified NAG test for samples with high total C content and low total S content. By comparing the correlation coefficients between acid generation amounts by the two evaluation methods, it was confirmed that modified evaluation method (MEM) has a much higher reliability (R2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.9582) than existing evaluation method (EEM) (R2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.5873). It was also concluded that exploiting advantages of both EEM and MEM is recommended where EEM is initially applied for general classification and a supplemented static test of MEM is executed for the purpose of correcting the error of UC categorized samples. labels: #Minerals'
b'Two rabbit lines have been created to result in better feed efficiency: the ConsoResidual line was selected for a lower residual feed intake under ad libitum feeding, and the ADGrestrict line was selected for higher ADG under restricted feeding (-20% of ad libitum). The present study aimed to analyze the digestion and excretion of N and minerals from 29 to 63 d of age of these 2 lines compared with an unselected control line (G0) under 2 feeding levels (ad libitum or restricted). The ADGrestrict line had greater digestibility compared with G0 (+1.3% for OM and N;<0.05), and the ConsoResidual line had intermediate values. There was no genetic line effect on the digestibility of N and P and on minerals concentrations (P, Zn, and Cu) in the feces and in the urine. The N balance was improved for the 2 selected lines (+5%;<0.05), leading to a reduced N output through the feces (0.06 g/d compared with G0;<0.001) and the urine (-0.07 g/d;<0.05) and to an improved N retention ratio (+3% compared with G0). Over the whole fattening period (d 29-63), significant differences were observed among lines only when fed ad libitum, with 13% greater DM fecal output and 5% greater N fecal output for G0. The N excretion in urine was 2 g less in the 2 selected lines, leading to a reduction of total N release of 4.4 g (compared with G0). The P excretion in feces (12 g) or urine (0.1 g) did not differ among the 3 lines. Over the whole fattening period and for ad libitum-fed rabbits, the 5% improvement in feed efficiency (<0.01) for the 2 selected lines corresponded to 400 g less feed intake (-8%) and to 20 g less N intake. The fecal excretion of the ADGrestrict and ConsoResidual lines were reduced by 200 g DM (<0.01), corresponding to 417 g fresh matter and 5 g of N. The excretion in minerals (P, Zn, and Cu) was not affected by the line. The feeding level strongly reduced the fecal and urine outputs (-50 and -60%, respectively;<0.001). Higher digestibility coefficients (<0.001) were found in restricted-fed rabbits for OM (+6%), N (+8%), and P (+11%). The N balance was substantially improved by the restriction, with 40% less total (feces + urine) N excretion (<0.001). The P balance was improved by the restriction (0.469 vs. 0.360). Over the fattening period, the P fecal output was 37% less (-6 g) with 24% less feed intake and the Zn and Cu outputs were reduced by 27 (-130 mg) and 29% (-30 mg), respectively. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objective of the current study was to compare the effects of dietary enzymes and nutrient restriction on performance and bone mineralization in birds fed wheat- or sorghum-based diets. A total of 720 d-old male broiler chicks were randomly allocated to 8 treatments, with 6 replicates per treatment and 15 birds per replicate. Birds were reared in floor pens from 0 to 35 d. The study used a 2 \xc3\x97 4 factorial arrangement with 2 grains (sorghum or wheat) and 4 diets: positive control (no enzyme and ME, digestible Lys, Ca, and P sufficient, negative control (NC; no enzyme and reduced ME [-100 kcal/kg], digestible AA [-2%], Ca [-0.12 percentage points], and available P [-0.18 percentage points in the starter phase and -0.22 percentage points in the grower phase]), NC + nonstarch polysaccharide-degrading enzymes + phytase (500 phytase units [FTU]; NCCP), and NC + phytase (1,000 FTU; NCP). From 0 to 35 d, birds fed wheat-based diets had greater G:F (4.5%), BW gain (9.2%), breast meat yield (6.8%), and tibia ash (2.0%) compared with birds fed sorghum-based diets. Across grain types, the NCCP treatment improved BW gain (<0.001), feed intake (<0.001), G:F (<0.05), and livability (<0.001) compared with the NC treatment. Birds fed NCP had greater BW gain (<0.001), feed intake (<0.001), G:F (<0.001), and livability (<0.001) compared with birds fed NC. Birds fed the NCP diet had greater BW gain (<0.001), toe ash (<0.01), and tibia ash (<0.001) compared with birds fed the NCCP diet. There was a grain \xc3\x97 diet interaction for feed intake (<0.01), BW gain (<0.001), tibia ash (<0.01), and tibia breaking strength (<0.05). The influence of enzymes was more pronounced in sorghum-based diets than in wheat-based diets. Birds fed wheat-based diets had greater ileal digestibility of His, Met, Val, Phe, Ile, Leu, Trp, Glu, Pro, Ala, Tyr, and Cys compared with those fed sorghum-based diets (<0.05). Across grain types, NCP had greater apparent ileal digestibility of Met, Lys, Ser, Pro, Gly, and Cys than NC (<0.05). The results suggest that wheat is superior to sorghum for broilers, as expected, but that enzyme supplementation has the capability to restore the compromised bird performance due to feeding sorghum. In addition, compared with nonstarch polysaccharide-degrading enzymes and phytase (500 FTU/kg feed) added in concert, phytase supplemented at 1,000 FTU/kg resulted in a further improvement of some of the performance and bone mineralization parameters in male broilers fed sorghum-based diets. labels: #Minerals'
b"Laboratory soil incubations provide controlled conditions to investigate carbon and nutrient dynamics; however, they are not free of artefacts. As carbon and nitrogen cycles are tightly linked, we aimed at investigating whether the incubation-induced accumulation of mineral nitrogen (Nmin) biases soil organic carbon (SOC) mineralisation. For this, we selected two soils representative of the C:N ratio values found in European temperate forests, and applied two incubation systems: 'closed' beakers and 'open' microlysimeters. The latter allowed leaching the soil samples during the incubation. By the end of the 121-day experiment, the low C:N soil significantly accumulated more Nmin in beakers (5.12 g kg-1 OC) than in microlysimeters (3.00 g kg-1 OC) but there was not a significant difference in SOC mineralisation at any point of the experiment. On the other hand, Nmin did not accumulate in the high C:N soil but, by the end of the experiment, leaching had promoted 33.9% more SOC solubilisation than beakers. Therefore, we did not find evidence that incubation experiments introduce a bias on SOC mineralisation. This outcome strengthens results from soil incubation studies. labels: #Minerals"
b'The present study investigates the nutritive and anti-nutritive composition of six species (Allium porrum, Amaranthus spinosis, Apium graveolens, Caralluma edulis, Chenopodium album, Urtica dioica). The studied species contained considerable amount of crude protein (4.53-11.41%), crude fat (1.25-3.74%), vitamin C (7.85-28.09mg 100-1g) and \xce\xb2-Carotene (18.29-169.33mg 100-1g). The mineral profile of Chenopodium album is considered as potential source of Zn (14.51\xc2\xb11.14mg 100-1g), Mn (67.71\xc2\xb10.85mg 100-1g), Se (8.45\xc2\xb10.49mg 100-1g) and Fe (182.08\xc2\xb11.52mg 100-1g) and Caralluma edulis as potential source of Fe (7.28\xc2\xb1 0.03mg 100-1g). Ca and P content ranged 63-306mg 100-1g and 12-392mg 100-1g in all studied plants with exceptionally high level was found in Chenopodium album (1084mg 100-1g) and (3924mg 100-1g), respectively. Similarly, total phenol, tannin and phytic acid were found in the range of 105-354, 5-90 and 10-85mg 100-1g, respectively. Total oxalates and soluble oxalates contents were below 200mg 100-1g in five examined plants with the exception of Chenopodium album (413mg 100-1g). Antioxidant activity of Caralluma edulis was found maximum while the rest of the examined plants had moderate levels. labels: #Minerals'
b'Reviewing the current state of knowledge about sequential extraction applied for soil vanadium (V) fractionation, we identified an urgent requirement of an sequential extraction (SE) specified for V. Namely, almost all previous SE extracted only 8.4%-48% of total V in soils (excluding residue). Thus, we proposed an eight-step SE for V fractionation in soils according to the knowledge gained from literature and our own dissolution experiments with model minerals. After extracting the mobilisable and adsorbed V with de-ionised water and 5mmol/L phosphate, 1mol/L pyrophosphate was applied to gather organic matter bound V which minimised the artefact dissolving Al and Fe (hydr)oxides occurred when using HNO3-H2O2for extraction. Extraction with 0.4mol/L NH2OH\xe2\x8b\x85HCl was highly selective toward manganese oxides. Fractionation of different crystalline Al and Fe (hydr)oxides associated V with 1mol/L HCl, 0.2mol/L oxalate buffer and 4mol/L HCl at 95\xc2\xb0C especially improved the extractability of V incorporated with crystalline phase associated V. The suitability of our new SE scheme was confirmed by its higher selectivity against the target phases and higher extraction efficiencies (55%-77% of total V) with model minerals and 6 soils of different properties than previous SE. labels: #Minerals'
b'The purpose of this in vitro study was to investigate the efficacy of micro-Raman spectroscopy on detecting mineral content change during the demineralization and de/remineralization cycling process. The enamel samples (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa055) were randomly divided into three groups and separately treated with demineralization solution (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa020), de/remineralization cycling solution (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa030), and distilled water (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa05). Micro-Raman spectroscopy, microhardness (MHS), and the released calcium ions concentration were performed before and after treatment, respectively. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with a post hoc Tukey test was used to analyze the results. The Spearman correlation coefficients among the parameters of Raman relative intensity decrease (RRID%), the percentage of MHS loss (PML), and the released calcium ions concentration were also analyzed. In demineralization group, RRID%, PML, and released calcium ions concentration were highly correlated with each other (r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.979, p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001; r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.984, p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001; and r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.983, p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001, respectively). While for the de/remineralization cycling group, there also existed a high correlation between RRID% and PML (r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.987, p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). In conclusion, micro-Raman spectroscopy could effectively monitor the mineral content change, and its efficacy was validated by the measurement of released calcium ions concentration and MHS. labels: #Minerals'
b"Biochars were produced from celery biomass by slow pyrolysis at 350 and 500\xc2\xb0C, and featured by high content of alkaline minerals namely salts of alkali and alkaline earth metals. The biochars' efficiency on removing Pb2+from solution was investigated, and two biochars derived from celery stalk (StC350 and StC500) showed higher Pb2+sorption capacity (288 and 304mg/g) than most biochars reported previously. The sorption mechanisms involving precipitation, cation exchange and surface complexation are related to three biochar fractions namely water-soluble matter, acid-soluble substances and insoluble organic carbon. The relative contributions of water-soluble matter and acid-soluble substances to the total Pb2+removal were 59.8% and 36.6% for the StC350 biochar, and 62.8% and 34.9% for the StC500 biochar, respectively. The results indicate that biochars derived from vegetable wastes are potential candidates for efficient sorption of heavy metals. labels: #Minerals"
b'Corrosion deposits formed within drinking water distribution systems deteriorate drinking water quality and resultantly cause public health consequences. In the present study, an attempt was made to investigate the concurrent conditions of corrosion scales and the drinking water quality in selected water supply schemes (WSS) in districts Chitral, Peshawar, and Abbottabad, northern Pakistan. Characterization analyses of the corrosion by-products revealed the presence of \xce\xb1-FeOOH, \xce\xb3-FeOOH, Fe3O4, and SiO2as major constituents with different proportions. The constituents of all the representative XRD peaks of Peshawar WSS were found insignificant as compared to other WSS, and the reason could be the variation of source water quality. Well-crystallized particles in SEM images indicated the formation of dense oxide layer on corrosion by-products. A wider asymmetric vibration peak of SiO2appeared only in Chitral and Abbottabad WSS, which demonstrated higher siltation in the water source. One-way ANOVA analysis showed significant variations in pH, turbidity, TDS, K, Mg, PO4, Cl, and SO4values, which revealed that these parameters differently contributed to the source water quality. Findings from this study suggested the implementation of proper corrosion prevention measures and the establishment of international collaboration for best corrosion practices, expertise, and developing standards. labels: #Minerals'
b'Producers of apple-based beverages are confronted with colloidal instability. Haze is caused by interactions between molecules that lead to the formation of aggregates. Haze composition in three apple-based beverages, namely, French sparkling cider, apple juice, and pommeau, was studied. Phenolic compounds, proteins, polysaccharides, and minerals were analyzed using global and detailed analytical methods. The results explained<75% (w/w) of haze dry mass. Polyphenols, represented mainly by procyanidins, were the main compounds identified and accounted for 10-31% of haze. However, oxidized phenolic compounds were probably underestimated and may represent a high proportion of haze. Proteins were present in all of the samples in proportions of<6% of haze except in two apple juice hazes, where they were the main constituents (18 and 24%). Polysaccharides accounted for 0-30% of haze. Potassium and calcium were the main minerals. labels: #Minerals'
b'The present study is concerned with the batch adsorption of congo red (CR) from an aqueous solution using calcium alginate beads impregnated with nano-goethite (CABI nano-goethite) as an adsorbent. The optimum conditions for CR removal were determined by studying operational variables viz. pH, adsorbent dose, contact time, initial dye ion concentration and temperature. The CABI nano-goethite was characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), X- ray diffraction (XRD) and Scanning electron microscopy/energy dispersive spectroscopy (SEM/EDS) analysis. The CR sorption data onto CABI nano-goethite were described using Langmuir, Freundlich, Dubinin-Radushkevich and Temkin isotherm models. The results show that the best fit was achieved with the Langmuir isotherm model. The maximum adsorption capacity (181.1mg/g) of CR was occurred at pH 3.0. Kinetic studies showed that the adsorption followed a pseudo-second-order model. Desorption experiments were carried out to explore the feasibility of regenerating the adsorbent and the adsorbed CR from CABI nano-goethite. The best desorbing agent was 0.1M NaOH with an efficiency of 94% recovery. The thermodynamic parameters \xce\x94G\xc2\xb0, \xce\x94H\xc2\xb0, and \xce\x94S\xc2\xb0 for the CR adsorption were determined by using adsorption capacities at five different temperatures (293, 303, 313, 323 and 303K). Results show that the adsorption process was endothermic and favoured at high temperature. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of the present study was to explore impact of endurance exercise on urinary level of minerals and trace elements as well as on some oxidative stress and biochemical parameters. Urine samples were collected from participants (n=21) of mountain ultra-marathon race (53km; Medvednica, Zagreb, Croatia), before (baseline value), immediately after, 12h and 24h after the race. In urine samples level of minerals (Ca, P, K and Na) and trace elements (Se, Zn, Mn, Cu, Fe and Co) were assessed using the bench top Total reflection X-ray Fluorescence (TXRF) spectrometer. Oxidative stress was determined as level of malondialdehyde (MDA). Immediately after the race level of minerals, trace elements, MDA, creatinine, ketones, erythrocytes and specific gravity increased compared to their baseline value. In 24h follow-up trace elements involved in antioxidant defence, MDA and biochemical parameters returned to their baseline values, Cu and Co remained increased as after the race, Fe and K tended to return to baseline values while Ca, P and Na continued to increase. Mountain ultra-marathon resulted in alteration of physiologically important minerals and trace elements that for some minerals and trace elements persist, indicating their involvement in recovery processes. However, due to their loss in urine, level of minerals and trace elements in athletes participating in endurance exercise should be monitored. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mineral composition (Fe, Zn, Cu, Mn, Se, Cr, Co, Ni, Na, K, Mg, Ca) and toxic element levels (Cd, Pb, Hg, As) of soil, feed and tissue (muscle, liver and kidney) from intensive (Swedish Landrace, housed indoors, fed a known diet, 4\xc2\xa0years) and extensive (Mangulica, free-roaming, non-specified diet, 7-8\xc2\xa0months) pigs were determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Controlled nutrition produced pigs with higher concentrations of most minerals (muscle: Mn, Se, K, Mg; liver: Zn, Cu, Mn, Se, Cr, Ca; kidney: Zn, Cu, Mn, Se, K, Mg), but for Fe the opposite trend was found. Long-term free-ranging pigs have a higher risk of contamination by toxic elements (Cd exceeded the maximum residue level in kidney). Principal component analysis and cluster analysis were used to assess the effect of different pig breed/lifestyle (pig type) on element composition of muscle, liver and kidney of pigs. Multivariate data analysis showed good discriminating capabilities. labels: #Minerals'
b'Contaminants zinc (Zn) and arsenate (As) often coexist in soils. However, little is known concerning the impacts of coexisting As on Zn adsorption and precipitation on soil minerals. In the present study, adsorption and precipitation of Zn on \xce\xb3-alumina in the absence and presence of arsenate was investigated employing batch experiments and Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy. Results indicated that Zn formed edge-sharing tetrahedral surface complexes at pH 5.5 and Zn-Al LDH-like (layered double hydroxide) precipitates at pH 7.0 on the surface of \xce\xb3-alumina. The presence of arsenate significantly enhanced Zn sorption densities, and remarkably changed its bonding environment. At pH 5.5, SR-XRD (Synchrotron Radiation-based X-ray Diffraction) and EXAFS showed that koettigite-like precipitate were formed in the cosorption of Zn and As on \xce\xb3-alumina regardless of the addition sequence of As and Zn. At pH 7.0, when Zn was preequilibrated with \xce\xb3-alumina prior to the As introduction, mixed Zn-Al LDH-like and amorphous adamite-like precipitates formed. However, when Zn and As were added simultaneously, only amorphous adamite-like precipitate was observed. Zn inner-sphere complexes and surface ternary complexes \xce\xb3-alumina-As-Zn were the main outcome when As was preequilibrated firstly. Zn-arsenate precipitates could significantly decrease the concentration of Zn in aqueous solution and decrease the bioavailability and mobilization of Zn in soils. labels: #Minerals'
b'The development of common bean cultivars with high technological quality that are biofortified with minerals, is required to meet the demand for food with health benefits. The objectives of this study were to evaluate whether common bean genotypes differ in terms of technological and mineral biofortification traits, to study the correlations between these characters, to analyze the genetic dissimilarity of common bean genotypes, and to select superior lines for these traits. For this, 14 common bean genotypes were evaluated in experiments conducted in three growing seasons in the Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil. A significant genotype x environment interaction was observed for technological quality (mass of 100 grains and cooking time) and biofortification traits (concentration of potassium, phosphorus, calcium, iron, zinc, and copper). Positive correlation estimates were obtained between phosphorus and potassium (r = 0.575), iron and zinc (r = 0.641), copper and iron (r = 0.729), and copper and phosphorus (r = 0.533). In the main component cluster analysis, four groups of genotypes were formed. The following lines are recommended for selection: LP 11-363 for fast-cooking, CNFC 11 948 for high iron concentration, and LEC 03-14 for high potassium, phosphorus, and calcium concentrations in grains. Common bean lines with high phosphorus and iron concentrations in grains can be indirectly selected based on higher potassium, copper, and zinc concentrations. Controlled crossings between LP 11-363 x CNFC 11 948 and LP 11-363 x LEC 03-14 are recommended to obtain segregating lines that are fast-cooking and biofortified with minerals. labels: #Minerals'
b'The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of 0.05% sodium fluoride and 0.12% chlorhexidine mouthwashes on the micro-hardness of tooth enamel and cementum that was exposed to therapeutic doses of gamma radiation. Sixty extracted human teeth were divided into two groups, one was irradiated, the other was not irradiated. The two groups were further subdivided into three subgroups, which were each treated either with 0.05% sodium fluoride or with 0.12% chlorhexidine; the third subgroup served as a control. After demineralization-remineralization cycling, teeth from the irradiated groups showed a significantly lower micro-hardness when compared to those from the non-irradiated groups. Both in the irradiated and non-irradiated groups, teeth from the control subgroups showed a significantly lower micro-hardness, as compared to teeth treated with sodium fluoride and chlorhexidine. For non-irradiated enamel samples, those treated with chlorhexidine showed a significantly less micro-hardness compared to those treated with sodium fluoride. In contrast, irradiated enamel showed no significant difference in micro-hardness, whatever treatment (chlorhexidine or sodium fluoride) was applied. For cementum, treatment with chlorhexidine resulted in a significantly lower micro-hardness compared to sodium fluoride, both for the irradiated and non-irradiated groups. It is concluded that gamma irradiation with therapeutic doses typically used for head and neck carcinoma treatment has a direct effect in reducing micro-hardness of tooth enamel and cementum. Mouthwash protocols including, for example, application of 0.05% sodium fluoride or 0.12% chlorhexidine three times per day for 6\xc2\xa0weeks, can protect enamel and cementum against the reduction in hardness and demineralization caused by gamma irradiation. Sodium fluoride offers more protection compared to chlorhexidine. labels: #Minerals'
b'This paper aims to identify the correlation between the mineral contents in agropellets and particle matter and bottom ash characteristics during combustion in domestic boilers. Four agrifood residues with higher mineral contents, namely grape marc (GM), tomato waste (TW), exhausted olive mill solid waste (EOMSW) and olive mill wastewater (OMWW), were selected. Then, seven different pellets were produced from pure residues or their mixture and blending with sawdust. The physico-chemical properties of the produced pellets were analysed using different analytical techniques, and a particular attention was paid to their mineral contents. Combustion tests were performed in 12-kW domestic boiler. The particle matter (PM) emission was characterised through the particle number and mass quantification for different particle size. The bottom ash composition and size distribution were also characterised. Molar balance and chemometric analyses were performed to identify the correlation between the mineral contents and PM and bottom ash characteristics. The performed analyses indicate that K, Na, S and Cl are released partially or completely during combustion tests. In contrast, Ca, Mg, Si, P, Al, Fe and Mn are retained in the bottom ash. The chemometric analyses indicate that, in addition to the operating conditions and the pellet ash contents, K and Si concentrations have a significant effect on the PM emissions as well as on the agglomeration of bottom ash. labels: #Minerals'
b'Context: Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)23 is a critical determinant of phosphate homeostasis. The role of FGF23, however, in regulating physiologic changes in serum phosphate and renal phosphate handling across childhood is not well described. In addition, animal models have suggested a role for FGF23 in regulating renal calcium excretion.Objective: To assess changes in FGF23 concentrations across childhood in relation to changes in mineral ions and hormones of mineral ion homeostasis.Design: This was a cross-sectional study.Setting: The study was conducted at a Clinical Research Center at a tertiary care hospital.Patients or Other Participants: Ninety healthy girls ages 9 to 18 years were recruited from the surrounding community.Main Outcome Measures: The associations of intact and C-terminal FGF23 concentrations with measures of mineral ion homeostasis were determined by univariable and multivariable linear regression.Results: Serum phosphate and renal phosphate excretion varied with age, as expected (R = -0.49, P<0.001 and R = -0.48, P<0.001, respectively). Neither intact nor C-terminal FGF23 varied with age, and FGF23 was not correlated with serum or urinary phosphate. Intact FGF23 was positively correlated with serum calcium (R = 0.39, P<0.001) and negatively correlated with urinary calcium/creatinine ratio (R = -0.27, P = 0.011).Conclusions: The changes in serum and urinary phosphate handling across childhood do not appear to be determined by alterations in FGF23 concentrations. These data may point to a role for FGF23 in calcium regulation in human physiology. labels: #Minerals'
b'Context: Obesity is associated with poor bone mineralization and quality. Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) plays an important role in skeletal physiology.Objective: To test hypothesis that greater adiposity results in higher FGF23 levels among individuals with normal estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR).Design, Setting, Participants: Cross-sectional analyses among participants with eGFR \xe2\x89\xa560 mL/min/1.73m2. We assessed the association between crude [body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), and waist-to-hip ratio (WHR); n = 5610] and refined (abdominal adipose tissue area by computed tomography; n = 1313) measures of adiposity and FGF23 using multivariable linear regression.Main Outcome Measure: Serum FGF23.Results: FGF23 was higher across BMI categories (BMI<25: 37.7; BMI 25 to 29.99: 38.7; BMI 30 to 39.99: 39.8; BMI \xe2\x89\xa540: 40.9 pg/mL, unadjusted P trend<0.0001). The association between BMI and FGF23 was independent of known confounders of FGF23 (adjusted \xce\xb2 = +7.2% higher FGF23 per 10 kg/m2; P<0.0001). Similar results were observed using WC and WHR. Abdominal adipose tissue area was also independently associated with higher FGF23 (P<0.01). Notably, the positive associations between FGF23 and adiposity were observed despite the fact that eGFR did not decline and serum phosphate levels did not increase with adiposity.Conclusion: In a large cohort with normal kidney function, adiposity was associated with higher FGF23 levels independent of known confounders, including eGFR and phosphate. Further studies are needed to evaluate the causes of higher FGF23 in settings of greater adiposity and the potential impact on skeletal health. labels: #Minerals'
b'On Earth, microorganisms commonly enhance mineral precipitation and mediate mineralogical and chemical compositions of resulting deposits, particularly at spring systems. However, preservation of any type of microbial fossil or chemical or textural biosignature depends on the degree of alteration during diagenesis and factors such as exposure to diagenetic fluids. Little is known about the transformation of biosignatures during diagenesis over geologic time. Ten Mile Graben, Utah, USA, hosts a cold spring system that is an exceptional site for evaluation of diagenetic alteration of biosignatures because of the presence of modern springs with actively precipitating microbial mats and a series of progressively older tufa terraces (<400\xe2\x80\x89ka) preserved in the area from the same spring system. A previously undescribed Jurassic laminated carbonate unit within the upper part of the Brushy Basin Member of the Morrison Formation is also exposed in Ten Mile Graben. This research characterizes the geology of these modern and Quaternary saline, Fe-undersaturated, circumneutral Ten Mile Graben cold springs and provides the first description in the literature of the Jurassic Brushy Basin Member of the Morrison Formation carbonate deposit. Taphonomy of microbial fossils is characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The data highlight two distinct methods of biosignature formation: (1) precipitation of minerals from an undersaturated solution owing to metabolic activity of the cells and (2) mineral precipitation on charged cell surfaces that produce distinctive microbial trace fossils. Although diagenesis can destroy or severely degrade biosignatures, particularly microbial fossils, some fossils and trace fossils are preserved because entombment by Ostwald ripening limits diagenetic alteration. Recognizing spring-fed, biogenic tufas is crucial for astrobiological research and the search for life on Mars. Key Words: Biosignatures-Taphonomy-Diagenesis-Carbonates-Hot springs. Astrobiology 17, 216-230. labels: #Minerals'
b'The first objective of this study was to determine the influence of dietary composition on the in situ disappearance of phytate (InsP6) from wheat, corn, soybean meal, and rapeseed meal [solvent-extracted, without (RSM) or with (hRSM) heat treatment] in the rumen of dairy cows. The second objective was to assess the primary degradation products of InsP6in the rumen. Three diets differing in phosphorus and InsP6concentration (basal diet = 0.38% P in dry matter; high-P diet = 0.56% P; high-InsP6diet = 0.39% P) were fed to 3 ruminally fistulated lactating Jersey cows in a 3 \xc3\x97 3 Latin square. Ground concentrates (sieve size = 2 mm) were incubated in polyester bags in the rumen for 2, 4, 8, 16, and 24 h. The bag residues were analyzed for P, InsP6, isomers of lower inositol phosphates (InsP5, InsP4, InsP3), and crude protein. The InsP6disappeared more rapidly from cereal grains than from oilseed meals; however, after 24 h of incubation \xe2\x89\xa595% InsP6had disappeared from all concentrates except hRSM (57%; diet average). Feeding the high-InsP6diet increased InsP6disappearance for oilseed meals, but not for corn and wheat. The predominant InsP5isomer in all bag residues was Ins(1,2,4,5,6)P5followed by Ins(1,2,3,4,5)P5and Ins(1,2,3,4,6)P5. A further InsP5isomer [Ins(1,3,4,5,6)P5] was detected in both rapeseed meal bag residues. Feeding the high-InsP6diet led to lower concentrations of Ins(1,2,4,5,6)P5and Ins(1,2,3,4,5)P5, whereas an interaction between diet, concentrate, and time occurred for Ins(1,2,3,4,6)P5and Ins(1,3,4,5,6)P5. The results confirm the high potential of rumen microorganisms to hydrolyze InsP6; however, increasing the amount of InsP6in the diet can further enhance InsP6hydrolysis, which may be relevant when concentrates with slowly degradable InsP6,such as RSM or heat-treated concentrates, are fed to dairy cows. Based on the concentrations of InsP5isomers, 3 and 6 phytases appear to play a major role in the rumen. Conversely, intrinsic plant phytase activity appears to be less relevant as the percentage of its primary hydrolysis product, Ins(1,2,3,4,5)P5, changed only slightly upon using wheat known for high intrinsic phytase activity instead of the other concentrates. Additional information regarding the factors influencing the extent of ruminal InsP6disappearance will require further studies to determine the phytase activity of rumen microorganisms and the characteristics of their respective phytases. labels: #Minerals'
b'Background: Metabolic changes caused by hormonal contraception combined with unbalanced diet may pose many threats, and deficiency or excess of nutrients may increase the risk of using such contraceptives.Objective: The purpose of the survey was to assess the dietary choices of young women using hormonal contraceptives, taking into account their general knowledge about the contraception and its impact on their bodies.Material and methods: The survey comprised 67 women aged from 18 to 25 years. In of three-day menus (201 daily food rations) of the women under research the content of energy and most of nutritious ingredients wandered away from recommended values in Poland. Each respondent additionally filled in a questionnaire concerning her: anthropometric data, education, place of residence; the type, name and time of taking contraceptives; purpose for using hormonal contraception along with its determinants; duration of use, breaks in contraceptive practice; occurrence of side effects during contraceptive use; stimulants used; physical activity, incidence of diarrhoea and vomiting, and dietary supplements use.Results: The assessment of nutritional status of young women taking hormonal contraceptives has shown a number of nonconformities. The survey has revealed insufficient energy value of the menus, and incorrect proportions of basic nutrients, from recommended values, what was reflected in insufficient intake of vitamins (A, D, E, C, B1, B3, B6, and folates) and minerals (K, Ca, Mg, Fe). An excessive consumption of proteins, animal-based in particular, and insufficient consumption of lipids and carbohydrates, polysaccharides in particular, what resulted in insufficient consumption of dietary fibre.Conclusions: Nutritional choices of the respondents were typical to their gender and age, but were not adjusted to the use of hormonal contraceptives. Side effects observed by the respondents, mainly weight gain, may have been a summary result of improper eating behaviors that facilitated accumulation of body fat and water. labels: #Minerals'
b"This paper presents the possibility of producing phosphorus fertilizers throughAcidithiobacillus ferrooxidansutilization in secondary raw materials solubilization. Phosphorus was obtained from the bones of poultry and fish as well as from Morocco phosphorite. Four doses of poultry bones and fish bones were used in the experiment (2, 4, 10 and 20 g/L) and two doses (2 and 4 g/L) of phosphorite were also used. The experimenters measured the final pH, which increased in proportion to the increase in the number of poultry bone doses, whereas in the case of fish bones it decreased in proportion to the increase in the number of fish bone doses. Only in the case of phosphorite, where 10 g/L were used, there was a slight increase in pH during solubilization observed. The highest phosphorus concentration of 1.9% (expressed as P\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x85) was found for the solubilization performed on fish bones with the highest dose (20 g/L). The formulation obtained in this study meets the necessary requirements for use as a bio-fertilizer because of the relatively low content of P\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x85 and the low content of toxic elements. The results confirm the utilization ofAcidithiobacillus ferrooxidansin the biosolubilization of phosphorus renewable raw materials that can alleviate the problem of the world's depleting phosphorite deposits. labels: #Minerals"
b'Growth failure is one of the most relevant complications in children with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Among others, growth hormone (GH) resistance and bone mineral disorders have been identified as the most important causes of growth retardation.OBJECTIVES: 1. To characterize bone mineral metabolism and growth hormone bio-markers in CKD children treated with chronic peritoneal dialysis (PD). 2. To evaluate height change with rhGH treatment.PATIENTS AND METHOD: A longitudinal 12-month follow-up in prepuberal PD children.EXCLUSION CRITERIA: Tanner stage>1, nephrotic syndrome, genetic disorders, steroids, intestinal absorption disorders, endocrine disturbances, treatment with GH to the entry of the study. Demographic and anthropometric data were registered. FGF23, Klotho, VitD, IGF-1, IGFBP3, and GHBP were measured to evaluate mineral and growth metabolism.RESULTS: 15 patients, 7 male, age 6.9 \xc2\xb1 3.0 y were included. Time on PD was 14.33 \xc2\xb1 12.26 months. Height/age Z score at month 1 was -1.69 \xc2\xb1 1.03. FGF23 and Klotho: 131.7 \xc2\xb1 279.4 y 125.9 \xc2\xb1 24.2 pg/ml, respectively. 8 patients were treated with GH during 6-12 months, showing a non-significant increase in height/age Z-score during the treatment period. Bivariate analysis showed a positive correlation between Klotho and delta ZT/E, and between GHBP vs growth velocity index (p<.05).CONCLUSIONS: FGF23 values were high and Klotho values were reduced in children with CKD in PD, comparing to healthy children. Somatotropic axis variables were normal or elevated. rhGH tends to improve height and there is a positive correlation of GHBP and growth velocity in these children. labels: #Minerals'
b'We study dissolution in a chemically heterogeneous medium consisting of two minerals with contrasting initial structure and transport properties. We perform a reactive transport experiment using CO2-saturated brine at reservoir conditions in a millimeter-scale composite core composed of Silurian dolomite and Ketton limestone (calcite) arranged in series. We repeatedly image the composite core using X-ray microtomography (XMT) and collect effluent to assess the individual mineral dissolution. The mineral dissolution from image analysis was comparable to that measured from effluent analysis using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). We find that the ratio of the effective reaction rate of calcite to that of dolomite decreases with time, indicating the influence of dynamic transport effects originating from changes in pore structure coupled with differences in intrinsic reaction rates. Moreover, evolving flow and transport heterogeneity in the initially heterogeneous dolomite is a key determinant in producing a two-stage dissolution in the calcite. The first stage is characterized by a uniform dissolution of the pore space, while the second stage follows a single-channel growth regime. This implies that spatial memory effects in the medium with a heterogeneous flow characteristic (dolomite) can change the dissolution patterns in the medium with a homogeneous flow characteristic (calcite). labels: #Minerals'
b'Knowledge of the geochemical behavior of selenium and strontium is critical for the safe disposal of radioactive wastes. Goethite, as one of the most thermodynamically stable and commonly occurring natural iron oxy-hydroxides, promisingly retains these elements. This work comprehensively studies the adsorption of Se(IV) and Sr(II) on goethite. Starting from electrokinetic measurements, the binary and ternary adsorption systems are investigated and systematically compared via batch experiments, EXAFS analysis, and CD-MUSIC modeling. Se(IV) forms bidentate inner-sphere surface complexes, while Sr(II) is assumed to form outer-sphere complexes at low and intermediate pH and inner-sphere complexes at high pH. Instead of a direct interaction between Se(IV) and Sr(II), our results indicate an electrostatically driven mutual enhancement of adsorption. Adsorption of Sr(II) is promoted by an average factor of 5 within the typical groundwater pH range from 6 to 8 for the concentration range studied here. However, the interaction between Se(IV) and Sr(II) at the surface is two-sided, Se(IV) promotes Sr(II) outer-sphere adsorption, but competes for inner-sphere adsorption sites at high pH. The complexity of surfaces is highlighted by the inability of adsorption models to predict isoelectric points without additional constraints. labels: #Minerals'
b'Surfactants, such as triton X-100 (Tx-100), cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC), and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) are known to be toxic to Artemia Franciscana (Artemia) - an organism, frequently used to monitor the health of the aquatic environment. The phospho-metabolite profile of a living organism is often indicative of imbalances that may have been caused by environmental stressors, such as surfactants. This study utilizes in vivo31P NMR to monitor temporal changes in the phospho-metabolite profile of Artemia caused by Tx-100, CPC, and SDS and the ability of humic acid (HA) to mitigate the toxicity of these surfactants. It was found that, while Tx-100 does not have any effect on the phospho-metabolite profile, both CPC and SDS cause a complete retardation in growth of the phosphodiester (PDE) peak in the31P NMR spectrum, which is indicative of the inhibited cell replication. This growth inhibition was independently verified by the decreased guanosine triphosphate (GTP) concentration in the CPC and SDS-exposed Artemia. In addition, upon introduction of HA to the CPC and SDS-exposed Artemia, an increase of PDE peak over time is indicative of HA mitigating toxicity. labels: #Minerals'
b'Copper ore mining and processing are among the most harmful anthropogenic influences for the environment and they are a subject of international and national law regulations. Recultivation of areas influenced by mining and processing industry is commonly applied and monitored in order to restore as much as possible the natural environment. In this study, environmental magnetic methods are applied in order to assess the degree of soil restoration in terms of soil development, after remediation of waste dump from Cu-processing plant. Soils developed under birch forest stands of different age (5, 15, and 25\xc2\xa0years) as well as raw waste material were sampled along depth down to 20-30\xc2\xa0cm. Variations in magnetic parameters and ratios obtained (magnetic susceptibility, frequency-dependent magnetic susceptibility, anhysteretic remanence (ARM), isothermal remanence (IRM), ARM/IRM100mT) suggest the presence of magnetic enhancement in the upper 0-15\xc2\xa0cm, the thickness of this layer varying depending on the age of the forest stand. Magnetic mineral responsible for this enhancement is of magnetite type, while waste material contains a large amount of hematite, as evidenced by coercivity analysis of IRM acquisition curves and thermal demagnetization of composite IRM. Magnetic grain-sized proxy parameters suggest that magnetite particles are coarser, magnetically stable, while no or minor amount of superparamagnetic grains were detected at room temperature. A well-defined linear regression between the topsoil magnetic susceptibility and the approximate age of the forest stand provides an indication that the magnetic enhancement is of pedogenic origin. It is concluded that the observed magnetic enhancement of recultivated soils studied is linked to a combined effect of pedogenic contribution and possible additions of industrial ashes as a liming agent for soil restoration. labels: #Minerals'
b'A scholzite (CaZn2(PO4)2\xc2\xb72H2O) coating was prepared in situ on commercially pure titanium (cpTi) and Ti-6Al-4V (Ti64) substrates using the chemical conversion technology, and its phase composition and microstructure, as well as mechanical, chemical and biological properties were investigated to explore potential applications as a bioactive coating on bone implants. It is indicated that the coating consists mainly of monoclinic scholzite crystals with nano-thick laminar morphology. The crystals on cpTi aggregate to flower-like particles with the diameter of 5-10\xce\xbcm, while form a network structure homogeneously on Ti64. The scratch test shows that the interfacial bonding strength between the coatings and substrates is higher than 40N. Electrochemical measurements indicate that the corrosion behavior of the coatings is not inferior compared with that of oxide film on substrates. MG63 osteoblast-like cells show good adherence and significantly proliferation and differentiation characteristics on the scholzite coated cpTi and Ti64 (p<0.05) in in-vitro cell tests, demonstrating the cytocompatibility of Ti is significantly improved by the scholzite coating. It is suggested that the scholzite coating might be a promising option in hard tissue replacements for early osteogenesis. labels: #Minerals'
b'Since 1982, farmers in the North West province and other parts of South Africa have noticed an increase in the incidence of lameness in cattle. Macro- and microscopical lesions of joints resembled osteochondrosis. Pre-trial data indicated that cattle with osteochondrotic lesions recovered almost completely when fed a supplement containing bio-available micro- and macrominerals of high quality. In the present trial, 43 clinically affected cattle of varying ages (1-5 years) and sexes were randomly divided into three groups. Each group was fed the same commercial supplement base with differing micro- and macromineral concentrations to determine the effect of mineral concentrations on the recovery from osteochondrosis. Both supplements 1 and 2 contained 25% of the recommended National Research Council (NRC) mineral values. Additional phosphate was added to supplement 2. Supplement 3, containing 80% of the NRC mineral values, was used as the control. Results from all three groups indicated no recovery from osteochondrosis. Urine pH of a small sample of the test cattle showed aciduria (pH&lt; 6). Supplement analysis revealed addition of ammonium sulphate that contributed sulphate and nitrogen to the supplement. Supplementary dietary cation anion difference (DCAD) values were negative at -411 mEq/kg, -466 mEq/kg and -467 mEq/kg for supplements 1, 2 and 3, respectively, whereas the pre-trial supplement was calculated at +19.87 mEq/kg. It was hypothesised that feeding a low (negative) DCAD diet will predispose growing cattle to the development of osteochondrosis or exacerbate subclinical or clinical osteochondrosis in cattle. labels: #Minerals'
b'The effect of the addition of industrial by-products (gypsum and calcite) on the leaching of As and metals (Cu, Zn, Ni, Pb and Cd) in a soil contaminated by pyritic minerals was monitored over a period of 6\xc2\xa0months at a two-pit pilot plant. The contaminated soil was placed in one pit (non-remediated soil), whereas a mixture of the contaminated soil (80% w/w) with gypsum (10% w/w) and calcite (10% w/w) was placed in the other pit (remediated soil). Soil samples and leachates of the two pits were collected at different times. Moreover, the leaching pattern of major and trace elements in the soil samples was assessed at laboratory level through the application of the pHstatleaching test. Addition of the by-products led to an increase in initial soil pH from around 2.0 to 7.5, and it also provoked that the concentration of trace elements in soil extracts obtained from the pHstatleaching test decreased to values lower than quantification limits of inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry and lower than the hazardous waste threshold for soil management. The trace element concentration in the pilot-plant leachates decreased over time in the non-remediated soil, probably due to the formation of more insoluble secondary minerals containing sulphur, but especially decreased in pit of the remediated soil, in agreement with laboratory data. The pH in the remediated soil remained constant over the 6-month period, and the X-ray diffraction analyses confirmed that the phases did not vary over time, thus indicating the efficacy of the addition of the by-products. This finding suggests that soil remediation may be a feasible option for the re-use of non-hazardous industrial by-products. labels: #Minerals'
b'KEY MESSAGE: Agronomical characterization of a RIL population for fruit mineral contents allowed for the identification of QTL controlling these fruit quality traits, flanked by co-dominant markers useful for marker-assisted breeding. Tomato quality is a multi-variant attribute directly depending on fruit chemical composition, which in turn determines the benefits of tomato consumption for human health. Commercially available tomato varieties possess limited variability in fruit quality traits. Wild species, such as Solanum pimpinellifolium, could provide different nutritional advantages and can be used for tomato breeding to improve overall fruit quality. Determining the genetic basis of the inheritance of all the traits that contribute to tomato fruit quality will increase the efficiency of the breeding program necessary to take advantage of the wild species variability. A high-density linkage map has been constructed from a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from a cross between tomato Solanum lycopersicum and the wild-relative species S. pimpinellifolium. The RIL population was evaluated for fruit mineral contents during three consecutive growing seasons. The data obtained allowed for the identification of main QTL and novel epistatic interaction among QTL controlling fruit mineral contents on the basis of a multiple-environment analysis. Most of the QTL were flanked by candidate genes providing valuable information for both tomato breeding for new varieties with novel nutritional properties and the starting point to identify the genes underlying these QTL, which will help to reveal the genetic basis of tomato fruit nutritional properties. labels: #Minerals'
b'Fungi can effectively accumulate various metallic elements, metalloids and non-metals in fruiting bodies. This study provides information on the accumulation of Ag, As, Ba, Cd, Co, Cs, Cu, Cr, Li, Mn, Ni, Pb, Rb, Sr, V, Tl, U and Zn in the edible mushroom Sarcodon imbricatus (L.) P. Karst. using the technique of inductively coupled plasma - mass spectrometry with a dynamic reaction cell mode. Mushrooms were foraged from four regions in Poland. Baseline concentrations of minerals, expressed in mg kg-1dry biomass (db), were in the composite samples of caps in the range: for Ag (0.27-0.29), As (1.0-1.9), Ba (0.31-0.45), Cd (4.5-6.3), Co (0.23-1.9), Cu (28-35), Cr (0.19-0.29), Cs (20-38), Li (0.013-0.020), Mn (5.9-8.8), Ni (0.81-1.4), Pb (0.94-1.6), Rb (490-700), Sr (0.14-0.19), Tl (0.058-0.11), U (0.002-0.002), V (0.044-0.054) and Zn (140-160). Concentration levels of Ag, As, Cd, Cs, Pb and Zn were higher in caps than in stipes of S. imbricatus, whereas for other elements the distribution between caps and stipes was nearly equal or for some differed depending on the location. Certainly, the content of toxic Cd in S. imbricatus was elevated (0.45-0.63\xc2\xa0mg kg-1in fresh caps) and therefore eating this mushroom could increase exposure to Cd. In addition, the content of toxic As in S. imbricatus was elevated. labels: #Minerals'
b'PREMISE OF THE STUDY: South American Loasaceae have a morphologically complex trichome cover, which is characterized by multiple biomineralization. The current study investigates the ontogeny of these complex trichomes and the process of their biomineralization, since both are very poorly understood.METHODS: The development of stinging trichomes on various parts of the plants and the process of mineralization were studied using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX).KEY RESULTS: Trichomes are initiated very early in organ development and the different trichome types begin developing their distinctive morphology at a very early developmental stage. Biomineralization in the stinging trichomes starts with the deposition of silica or calcium phosphate in the apex and then proceeds basipetally, with a more irregular, subsimultaneous mineralization of the base and the shaft. Mineralization of the scabrid-glochidiate trichomes starts on the surface processes and in the apex (silica, calcium phosphate), with a subsequent mineralization of the shaft with calcium carbonate.CONCLUSION: Mineralized trichomes in Loasaceae provide an excellent model for the study of biomineralization. The overall sequence of mineralization is typically from distal and peripheral to proximal and central. Typically, three biominerals-silica, calcium carbonate, and calcium phosphate-are differentially and sequentially deposited in different parts of each unicellular stinging trichome. labels: #Minerals'
b'The present study aimed to investigate the effect of Dickkopf-related protein 3 (DKK3) on osteogenic differentiation of rat dental follicle cells (DFCs). A PCR array analysis of Wnt pathway activation in DFCs identified genes dysregulated by mineral induction. Among them, DKK3expression levels were decreased, and further experiments were conducted to investigate its role in DFC osteogenesis. By comparing DFCs grown in normal growth and mineral\xe2\x80\x91induction media for 4\xc2\xa0weeks, the present study confirmed that DKK3 was a potential target gene of osteogenesis through reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT\xe2\x80\x91qPCR) and western blotting (WB). A short hairpin RNA (shRNA) was introduced into DFCs using a lentiviral vector to inhibit DKK3 expression. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity assay and Alizarin Red staining were performed to observe the DKK3\xe2\x80\x91shRNA DFCs. In addition, the osteogenic differentiation of DKK3\xe2\x80\x91shRNA DFCs was analyzed by RT\xe2\x80\x91qPCR and WB. In\xc2\xa0vivo, DKK3\xe2\x80\x91shRNA DFCs seeded on hydroxyapatite/\xce\xb2-tricalcium phosphate (HA/TCP) scaffolds were transplanted into the subcutaneous tissue of mice with severe combined immunodeficiency, followed by hematoxylin\xe2\x80\x91eosin and Masson staining. The results confirmed that DKK3 expression was downregulated during mineral induction in rat DFCs. Lentivirus\xe2\x80\x91mediated expression of DKK3 shRNA in DFCs promoted calcified\xe2\x80\x91nodule formation, ALP activity and the expression of \xce\xb2\xe2\x80\x91catenin, runt\xe2\x80\x91related transcription factor\xc2\xa02 and osteocalcin, compared with control cells. In\xc2\xa0vivo, the implanted section presented the majority of newly formed osteoid matrices and collagen, with limited space between the HA/TCP scaffolds and matrices. In conclusion, DKK3 expression negatively regulates the osteogenic differentiation of DFCs and, conversely, downregulation of DKK3 may enhance DFC osteogenesis. labels: #Minerals'
b'Introduction Restorative proctocolectomy (RP) is undertaken for patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and ulcerative colitis, but is associated with a risk of anastomotic leak. Case history A 20-year-old male with a family history of FAP had a RP with a double-stapled J-pouch and covering loop ileostomy. At ileostomy reversal 21 months later, he presented with significant anal bleeding. He proceeded to theatre for endoscopy. Pouchoscopy showed a pouch full of blood and a foreign object trapped in a diverticulum. The foreign object (an undigested tablet) was removed with grasping forceps and the bleeding spot identified. Hemospray\xc2\xae(Cook Medical, Winston-Salem, NC, USA) was deployed in the bleeding cavity to enable immediate control of haemorrhage. Recovery was uneventful and he was discharged home 72 hours later. Conclusions This case: (i) demonstrates a successful and novel method of controlling haemorrhage not amenable to use of conventional haemostatic mechanisms; (ii) highlights the potential problems of using prolonged-release medications in patients with gastrointestinal strictures/diverticulae. labels: #Minerals'
b'We separated dust particles from the mesh-filtered sets of rainwaters collected on rainy days with daily precipitations exceeding 10\xc2\xa0mm per day. A total of 136 rainwaters (or snow during the winter season) samples collected from February 2009 to February 2013 were analyzed. In particular, 33 out of 136 rainwaters were collected during or just after the Asian dust storm (ADS) events. Values of pH were relatively higher during warmer seasons. During ADS events, precipitations were alkaline, possibly due to abundant supply of alkaline minerals from the deserts source area to the precipitation. Compositional analysis on particulate matter (PM) indicated that Fe (and Al, K, and Mg) enriched the dusts collected during ADS, with respect to events than those without ADS. We found that ADS rainfall events are effective in selectively eliminating dust particles. However, high rainfall does not necessarily indicate more dilution of dusts. On microscopic examination, we observed natural soils, natural dust of pedogenesis or weathering origin, anthropogenic C-Fe-rich particles, and anthropogenic C-rich particles. Because of its small size, the stoichiometry of ADS-related, Fe-rich dust particles was inferred from the magnetic analysis. Presence of Verwey transition near 100-120\xc2\xa0K and experimental determination of Curie points near 580\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C indicate that magnetic mineral responsible for the magnetic properties of ADS-related dusts was magnetite. labels: #Minerals'
b"Spentwash is a rich source of organic matter and essential plant nutrients in addition to excess salts. Sugar mills in Pakistan discharge about 3.48 million tons of spentwash annually, with no proper procedures for its disposal or utilization. To test the effect of diluted spentwash on soil and the soil's ability to support plant growth, sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum L.) variety CPF-237 was planted. The experiment was conducted in a randomized complete block design involving factorial combination of four concentrations of each spentwash (0, 10, 20, and 30%) and mineral fertilizers (0, 1/3, 2/3, and the full recommended rate of NP). The 10% spentwash plus 2/3 mineral fertilizer treatment substituted 33% each of N and P and 100% of K, saving mineral fertilizer cost (Rs. 48600\xc2\xa0\xe2\x88\xbc\xc2\xa0US$458) in addition to 29.54% increase in yield over full NP fertilizer. The same treatment also improved the soil organic matter (65%), N (20%), P (25%), and K (230%) over full NP treatment alone. An increase in the salt content of the soil was detected within the prescribed limits, with the exception of HCO3. labels: #Minerals"
b'Reactive mineral-water interfaces exert control on the bioavailability of contaminant arsenic species in natural aqueous systems. However, the ability to accurately predict As surface complexation is limited by the lack of molecular-level understanding of As-water-mineral interactions. In the present study, we report the structures and properties of the adsorption complexes of arsenous acid (As(OH)3) on hydrated mackinawite (FeS) surfaces, obtained from density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The fundamental aspects of the adsorption, including the registries of the adsorption complexes, adsorption energies, and structural parameters are presented. The FeS surfaces are shown to be stabilized by hydration, as is perhaps to be expected because the adsorbed water molecules stabilize the low-coordinated surface atoms. As(OH)3adsorbs weakly at the water-FeS(001) interface through a network of hydrogen-bonded interactions with water molecules on the surface, with the lowest-energy structure calculated to be an As-up outer-sphere complex. Compared to the water-FeS(001) interface, stronger adsorption was calculated for As(OH)3on the water-FeS(011) and water-FeS(111) interfaces, characterized by strong hybridization between the S-p and O-p states of As(OH)3and the surface Fe-d states. The As(OH)3molecule displayed a variety of chemisorption geometries on the water-FeS(011) and water-FeS(111) interfaces, where the most stable configuration at the water-FeS(011) interface is a bidentate Fe-AsO-Fe complex, but on the water-FeS(111) interface, a monodentate Fe-O-Fe complex was found. Detailed information regarding the adsorption mechanisms has been obtained via projected density of states (PDOS) and electron density difference iso-surface analyses and vibrational frequency assignments of the adsorbed As(OH)3molecule. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the biomineralization of a newly introduced bioactive glass-incorporated light-curable pulp capping material using human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs). The product (Bioactive\xc2\xae [BA]) was compared with a conventional calcium hydroxide-incorporated (Dycal [DC]) and a light-curable (Theracal\xc2\xae [TC]) counterpart. Eluates from set specimens were used for investigating the cytotoxicity and biomineralization ability, determined by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and alizarin red staining (ARS). Cations and hydroxide ions in the extracts were measured. An hDPSC viability of less than 70% was observed with 50% diluted extract in all groups and with 25% diluted extract in the DC. Culturing with 12.5% diluted BA extract statistically lowered ALP activity and biomineralization compared to DC (p<0.05), but TC did not (p>0.05). Ca (~110\xe2\x80\x89ppm) and hydroxide ions (pH 11) were only detected in DC and TC. Ionic supplement-added BA, which contained similar ion concentrations as TC, showed similar ARS mineralization compared to TC. In conclusion, the BA was similar to, yet more cytotoxic to hDPSCs than, its DC and TC. The BA was considered to stimulate biomineralization similar to DC and TC only when it released a similar amount of Ca and hydroxide ions. labels: #Minerals'
b"The efficiency of natural minerals, i.e. zeolite, bentonite and goethite, regarding the retention of chromium, from maize was examined. Specifically, 1.0\xc2\xa0kg of soil, 1.0\xc2\xa0g of soil amendment and either 50\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1Cr(III) or 1\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1Cr(VI) were added in plant pots. Then, seeds of maize were cultivated. Each treatment was repeated three times. The statistical results of the experiments were analyzed by LSD test. Cr(III) addition in soil has shown that zeolite was the only amendment that increased the dry weight. Zeolite and bentonite reduced significantly the total chromium in plants after the addition of 50\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1Cr(III). The addition of Cr(VI) in soil has shown that bentonite was the only amendment that increased the dry weight of biomass and the plants' height. All soil amendments reduced to zero the total chromium concentration measured to plants after the addition of 1\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1Cr(VI). labels: #Minerals"
b'In China, excessive use of nitrogen fertilizers in glasshouses leads to nitrate accumulations in soil and plants, which then limits productivity. Melatonin, an evolutionarily highly conserved molecule, has a wide range of functions in plants. We analyzed the effects of melatonin pretreatment on the growth, mineral nutrition, and nitrogen metabolism in cucumber (Cucumis sativus L. "Jin You No. 1") when seedlings were exposed to nitrate stress. An application of 0.1\xc2\xa0mmol/L melatonin significantly improved the growth of plants and reduced their susceptibility to damage due to high nitrate levels (0.6\xc2\xa0mol/L) during the ensuing period of stress treatment. Although excess nitrate led to an increase in the concentrations of nitrogen, potassium, and calcium, as well as a decrease in levels of phosphorus and magnesium, exogenous melatonin generally had the opposite effect except for a further rise in calcium concentrations. Pretreatment also significantly reduced the accumulations of nitrate nitrogen and ammonium nitrogen and enhanced the activities of enzymes involved in nitrogen metabolism. Expression of Cs-NR and Cs-GOGAT, two genes that function in that metabolism, was greatly down-regulated when plants were exposed to 0.6\xc2\xa0mol/L nitrate, but was up-regulated in plants that had received the 0.1\xc2\xa0mmol/L melatonin pretreatment. Our results are the first evidence that melatonin has an important role in modulating the composition of mineral elements and nitrogen metabolism, thereby alleviating the inhibitory effect on growth normally associated with nitrate stress. labels: #Minerals'
b'PURPOSE: The purpose of this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial was to investigate the effects of the natural combination medicine Traumeel (Tr14) consisting of 14 diluted biological and mineral components on the inflammatory immune response and recovery up to 72\xc2\xa0h after repetitive bouts of bicycle tests.METHODS: Antigen-stimulated IL-1ra and IL-6 were defined as primary outcome measures. Moreover, various immunological and serum muscle damage markers were investigated. The evaluation was performed using the score of the area under the curve with respect to increase (AUCi) for 24 and 72\xc2\xa0h after the second exercise test (EX2).RESULTS: The Tr14 group indicated a lower decrease of lymphocytes by tendency (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.06) and a lower activation of lymphocyte activation markers (CD62L absolute: p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.04; CD69: p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.01 and CD69 absolute: p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.05) in the period 24\xc2\xa0h after EX2. In addition, the Tr14 group indicated a higher expression of antigen-stimulated CCL3 (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.01), CCL4 (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.07) and serum CCL2 (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.05) in the period 24\xc2\xa0h after EX2. There was a tendentially lower decrease of monocytes (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.09) and a lower expression of antigen-stimulated MMP-3 (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.01) in the Tr14 group in the period 72\xc2\xa0h after EX2. However, antigen-stimulated IL-1ra and IL-6 showed no group differences.CONCLUSION: In line with the previous results, it was shown that Tr14 attenuates the adaptive immune response partially. Furthermore, the results indicate that Tr14 is able to stimulate the innate immune system via an increased production of pro-inflammatory chemokines. It is speculated that the higher expression of chemokines might play a role in the regeneration and recovery after exercise. labels: #Minerals'
b'Direct assembly is a newly developed technique in which a cobaltite-based perovskite (CBP) cathode can be directly applied to a barrier-layer-free Y2O3-ZrO2(YSZ) electrolyte with no high-temperature pre-sintering steps. Solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs) based on directly assembled CBPs such as La0.6Sr0.4Co0.2Fe0.8O3-\xce\xb4show high performance initially but degrade rapidly under SOFC operation conditions at 750\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C owing to Sr segregation and accumulation at the electrode/electrolyte interface. Herein, the performance and interface of Sr-free CBPs such as LaCoO3-\xce\xb4(LC) and Sm0.95CoO3-\xce\xb4(SmC) and their composite cathodes directly assembled on YSZ electrolyte was studied systematically. The LC electrode underwent performance degradation, most likely owing to cation demixing and accumulation of La on the YSZ electrolyte under polarization at 500\xe2\x80\x85mA\xe2\x80\x89cm-2and 750\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C. However, the performance and stability of LC electrodes could be substantially enhanced by the formation of LC-gadolinium-doped ceria (GDC) composite cathodes. Replacement of La by Sm increased the cell stability, and doping of 5\xe2\x80\x89% Pd to form Sm0.95Co0.95Pd0.05O3-\xce\xb4(SmCPd) significantly improved the electrode activity. An anode-supported YSZ-electrolyte cell with a directly assembled SmCPd-GDC composite electrode exhibited a peak power density of 1.4\xe2\x80\x85W\xe2\x80\x89cm-2at 750\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C, and an excellent stability at 750\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C for over 240\xe2\x80\x85h. The higher stability of SmC as compared to that of LC is most likely a result of the lower reactivity of SmC with YSZ. This study demonstrates the new opportunities in the design and development of intermediate-temperature SOFCs based on the directly assembled high-performance and durable Sr-free CBP cathodes. labels: #Minerals'
b'In several species, developmental skeletal diseases involving abnormal endochondral ossification have been associated with imbalanced mineral intake. Hair analysis reflects long-term mineral status. To determine the mineral content of hair from dogs with or without medial coronoid process disease (MCPD). Dogs with MCPD have a different profile of minerals known to influence metalloenzymes involved in endochondral ossification. After cleansing, chelation and acid digestion of hair samples (n=79 in total: control dogs, n=70 v MCPD, n=9), mineral profile (7 major and 25 trace elements) was determined by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry. Dogs were of similar age (control, 4.05 [1.85-7.70] v MCPD, 4.30 [3.25-6.53]median (IQR) years; P=0.78) and gender (control, n=43/27 v MCPD, n=4/5 males/females). 28/70 (40 per cent) of control and 8/9 (88 per cent) of MCPD dogs were neutered, respectively. Hair from dogs with MCPD contained significantly lower amounts (\xc2\xb5g/g/DM) of copper, sulphur and zinc (all at P<0.001). Age, sex and neutered status had no effect on hair mineral status. Based on hair analysis, a role for mineral imbalance including copper, sulphur and zinc in the aetiopathogenesis of canine MCPD is suggested. Hair mineral analysis may prove useful as a biomarker for susceptible puppies. labels: #Minerals'
b'The fate of organic pollutants in the environment, especially the formation and stability of non-extractable (i.e., bound) residues (NERs) determines their environmental risk. Using14C-tracers, we studied the fate of the carcinogen phenanthrene in active or sterilized oxic loamy soil in the absence and presence of the geophagous earthworm Metaphire guillelmi and characterized the NERs derived from phenanthrene. After incubation of14C-phenanthrene in active soil for 28 days, 40\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa03.1% of the initial amount was mineralized and 70.1\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01.9% was converted to NERs. Most of the NERs (>92%) were bound to soil humin. Silylation of the humin-bound residues released 45.3\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa05.3% of these residues, which indicated that they were physically entrapped, whereas the remainder of the residues were chemically bound or biogenic. By contrast, in sterilized soil, only 43.4 \xc2\xb1\xc2\xa012.6% of the phenanthrene was converted to NERs and all of these residues were completely released upon silylation, which underlines the essential role of microbial activity in NER formation. The presence of M.\xc2\xa0guillelmi in active soil significantly inhibited phenanthrene mineralization (24.4\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa02.6% mineralized), but NER formation was not significantly affected. Only a small amount of phenanthrene-derived residues (1.9-5.3% of the initial amount) accumulated in the earthworm body. When humin-bound residues were mixed with fresh soil, 33.9% (humin recovered from active soils) and 12.4% (humin recovered from sterilized soils) of the residues were mineralized after 75 days of incubation, respectively, which indicated a high bioavailability of NERs, albeit lower than the initial addition of phenanthrene. Our results indicated that many phenanthrene-derived NERs, especially those physically entrapped, are still bioavailable and may pose a toxic threat to soil organisms. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate, longitudinally, the outcome of periodontal regenerative therapy using a deproteinized bovine bone mineral (DBBM) in combination with a collagen barrier (CB) for the treatment of intrabony defects.RESULTS: Patients with chronic periodontitis who have completed initial periodontal therapy participated in this study. They had at least one 2- or 3-wall intrabony periodontal defect of\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa53\xc2\xa0mm in depth. During surgery, defects were filled with DBBM and covered with CB. Ten patients completed 2.5-year reevaluation. At baseline, mean clinical attachment level (CAL) of the treated site was 8.0\xc2\xa0mm and mean probing depth (PD) was 7.5\xc2\xa0mm. Mean depth of intrabony component was 4.6\xc2\xa0mm. Mean gains in CAL at 6\xc2\xa0months and 2.5\xc2\xa0years were 2.8\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01.0 and 1.4\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01.5\xc2\xa0mm, respectively, both showing a significant improvement from baseline. CAL gains at 1 and 2.5\xc2\xa0years were significantly reduced from that at 6\xc2\xa0months. A significant improvement in PD was also noted: mean reductions in PD at 6\xc2\xa0months and 2.5\xc2\xa0years were 4.0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.8 and 3.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.8\xc2\xa0mm, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: The combination therapy using DBBM and CB yielded statistically significant effects such as CAL gain and PD reduction, up to 2.5\xc2\xa0years in the treatment of intrabony defects. However, the trend for decrease in CAL gain over time calls for the need for careful maintenance care. labels: #Minerals'
b'The cultivation and consumption of transgenic crops continues to be a widely debated topic, as the potential ecological impacts are not fully understood. In particular, because antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) have historically been used as selectable markers in the genetic engineering of transgenic crops, it is important to determine if the genetic constructs found in decomposing transgenic crops persist long enough in the environment and if they can be transferred horizontally to indigenous microorganisms. In the present study, we address the question of persistence. Others have also estimated the DNA adsorption capacity of various clays, but have done so by manipulating the surface charge and size of particles tested which may overestimate sorption and underestimate the DNA available for horizontal transfer. In the present study, isotherms were generated using model Calf Thymus DNA and transgenic maize DNA without surface modification. Montmorillonite, kaolinite, and 3 soil mixtures with varying clay content were used in this study. The adsorption capacity of pure montmorillonite and kaolinite minerals was found to be one to two orders of magnitude less than previously estimated likely due to the distribution of clay particle sizes and heteroionic particle surface charge. However, it appears that a substantial amount of DNA is still able to adsorb onto these matrices (up to 200\xc2\xa0mg DNA per gram of clay) suggesting the potential availability of free transgenic DNA in the environment may still be significant. Future studies should be conducted to determine the fate of these genes in agricultural soils. labels: #Minerals'
b'Vitamin and mineral deficiencies are prevalent in human populations throughout the world. Vitamin A deficiency affects hundreds of millions of pre-school age children in low income countries. Fruits of pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) can be a major dietary source of precursors to Vitamin A biosynthesis, such as \xce\xb2-carotene. Recently, pepper breeding programs have introduced the orange-fruited (of) trait of the mutant variety Oranzheva kapiya, which is associated with high fruit \xce\xb2-carotene concentrations, to the mutant variety Albena. In this manuscript, concentrations of \xce\xb2-carotene and mineral elements (magnesium, phosphorus, sulphur, potassium, zinc, calcium, manganese, iron and copper) were compared in fruit from P31, a red-fruited genotype derived from the variety Albena, and M38, a genotype developed by transferring the orange-fruited mutation (of) into Albena. It was observed that fruit from M38 plants had greater \xce\xb2-carotene concentration at both commercial and botanical maturity (4.9 and 52.7 mg / kg fresh weight, respectively) than fruit from P31 plants (2.3 and 30.1 mg / kg fresh weight, respectively). The mutation producing high \xce\xb2-carotene concentrations in pepper fruits had no detrimental effect on the concentrations of mineral elements required for human nutrition. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVE: To evaluate bone formation in human extraction sockets with absorbed surrounding walls augmented with Bio-Oss and Bio-Gide after a 6-month healing period by histologic and histomorphometric analyses.METHODS: Six fresh molar tooth extraction sockets in 6 patients who required periodontally compromised moral tooth extraction were included in this study. The six fresh extraction sockets were grafted with Bio-Oss particle covered with Bio-Gide. The 2.8 mm\xc3\x976.0 mm cylindric bone specimens were taken from the graft sites with aid of stent 6 months after the surgery. Histologic and histomorphometric analyses were performed.RESULTS: The histological results showed Bio-Oss particles were easily distinguished from the newly formed bone, small amounts of new bone were formed among the Bio-Oss particles, large amounts of connective tissue were found. Intimate contact between the newly formed bone and the small part of Bio-Oss particles was present. All the biopsy cylinders measurement demonstrated a high inter-individual variability in the percentage of the bone, connective tissues and Bio-Oss particles. The new bone occupied 11.54% (0-28.40%) of the total area; the connective tissues were 53.42% (34.08%-74.59%) and the Bio-Oss particles were 35.04% (13.92%-50.87%). The percentage of the particles, which were in contact with bone tissues, amounted to 20.13% (0-48.50%).CONCLUSION: Sites grafted with Bio-Oss particles covered with Bio-Gide were comprised of connective tissues and small amounts of newly formed bone surrounding the graft particles. labels: #Minerals'
b'Reduction by Fe(II)-bearing silicate minerals has been proposed as an important mechanism for the attenuation of chlorinated hydrocarbons (CHCs) in anoxic subsurfaces. The redox condition of subsurface often changes from anoxic to oxic due to natural processes and human activities, but little is known about the transformation of CHCs induced by Fe(II)-bearing silicate minerals under oxic conditions. This study reveals that trichloroethylene (TCE) can be efficiently oxidized during the oxygenation of reduced nontronite at pH 7.5, whereas the reduction was negligible under anoxic conditions. The maximum oxidation of TCE (initially 1\xc2\xa0mg/L) attained 89.6% for 3\xc2\xa0h oxygenation of 2\xc2\xa0g/L nontronite with 50% reduction extent. TCE oxidation is attributed to the strongly oxidizing hydroxyl radicals (OH) produced by the oxygenation of Fe(II) in nontronite. Fe(II) on the edges is preferentially oxygenated for OH production, and the interior Fe(II) serves as an electron pool to regenerate the Fe(II) on the edges. Oxidation of TCE could be sustainable through chemically or biologically reducing the oxidized silicate minerals. Our findings present a new mechanism for the transformation of CHCs and other redox-active substances in the redox-fluctuation environments. labels: #Minerals'
b'Carotenoid intake and tissue levels have been frequently associated with reduced risk of chronic diseases. However, their bioavailability is low and influenced by many dietary related parameters. Divalent mineral cations have been suggested to interfere with carotenoid digestion and to hamper micellarization, a prerequisite for their uptake, via complexation of bile salts and precipitation of fatty acids. In the present investigation, we have evaluated the effects of increasing concentrations of magnesium (0-300 mg L-1), calcium (0-1500 mg L-1), zinc (0-200 mg L-1), and sodium (0-1500 mg L-1; control monovalent cation), on carotenoid bioaccessibility from frequently consumed food items rich in carotenoids (tomato juice, carrot juice, apricot nectar, spinach and field salad), following simulated gastro-intestinal digestion. In addition, physicochemical parameters of digesta (macroviscosity, surface tension), micelle size, and zeta-potential were evaluated. All divalent minerals (DM) reduced bioaccessibility of total carotenoids (P<0.01), as well as of individual carotenoids. Calcium and magnesium led to reductions of up to 100% at the 2 highest concentrations. Curiously, sodium increased (P<0.01) carotenoid bioaccessiblity of most investigated matrices. The absolute value of the zeta-potential decreased with increasing concentrations of DM, suggesting a decreased stability of the colloidal digesta dispersion. Viscosity decreased, except for apricot nectar samples, while surface tension increased with DM concentration (P<0.05). Thus, at physiological ranges, calcium and magnesium could negatively impact carotenoid bioavailability, while for zinc, negative effects were only seen at supplemental concentrations. The potential negative effects of DM on carotenoid bioavailability should be further studied in vivo. labels: #Minerals'
b'PURPOSE: To assess the fracture resistance (FR) and cusp deflection (CD) of lined or non-lined composite (CO) and glass hybrid (GH) restorations over residual demineralized dentin.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In 48 extracted human premolars, artificial residual demineralized dentin was induced on pulpo-axial walls of standardized cavities. Various restorations were placed over this demineralized dentin: an experimental GH, a composite restoration (OptiBond FL+Tetric EvoCeram) without lining, or composite restorations with non-setting (Hypocal) or setting (Dycal) calcium hydroxide lining. After thermomechanical cycling, groups (n = 12) were compared regarding their CD and FR.RESULTS: CD did not differ significantly between groups. FR was significantly lower in teeth restored with GH (median: 238 N; 25th/75th percentiles: 191/287 N) than in those restored with lined or non-lined composites (median range: 517-569 N; p<0.05/Mann-Whitney), which did not differ significantly from each other (p>0.05).CONCLUSION: Within the conditions of this in vitro study, CH lining of pulpo-axial walls had only limited impact on CD and FR. GH showed the lowest FR and might not be optimal for restoring deep or extended cavitated lesions. labels: #Minerals'
b"BACKGROUND: Marker-assisted breeding is now routinely used in major crops to facilitate more efficient cultivar improvement. This has been significantly enabled by the use of next-generation sequencing technology to identify loci and markers associated with traits of interest. While rich in a range of nutritional components, such as protein, mineral nutrients, carbohydrates and several vitamins, pea (Pisum sativum L.), one of the oldest domesticated crops in the world, remains behind many other crops in the availability of genomic and genetic resources. To further improve mineral nutrient levels in pea seeds requires the development of genome-wide tools. The objectives of this research were to develop these tools by: identifying genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) using genotyping by sequencing (GBS); constructing a high-density linkage map and comparative maps with other legumes, and identifying quantitative trait loci (QTL) for levels of boron, calcium, iron, potassium, magnesium, manganese, molybdenum, phosphorous, sulfur, and zinc in the seed, as well as for seed weight.RESULTS: In this study, 1609 high quality SNPs were found to be polymorphic between 'Kiflica' and 'Aragorn', two parents of an F6-derived recombinant inbred line (RIL) population. Mapping 1683 markers including 75 previously published markers and 1608 SNPs developed from the present study generated a linkage map of size 1310.1\xc2\xa0cM. Comparative mapping with other legumes demonstrated that the highest level of synteny was observed between pea and the genome of Medicago truncatula. QTL analysis of the RIL population across two locations revealed at least one QTL for each of the mineral nutrient traits. In total, 46 seed mineral concentration QTLs, 37 seed mineral content QTLs, and 6 seed weight QTLs were discovered. The QTLs explained from 2.4% to 43.3% of the phenotypic variance.CONCLUSION: The genome-wide SNPs and the genetic linkage map developed in this study permitted QTL identification for pea seed mineral nutrients that will serve as important resources to enable marker-assisted selection (MAS) for nutritional quality traits in pea breeding programs. labels: #Minerals"
b"In this study, promising candidates of six apricot genotypes were compared with our local and major cultivar (Hac\xc4\xb1halilo\xc4\x9flu) based on their phenological, pomological, and biochemical characteristics. Fruit weight, stone weight, flesh firmness, flesh fruit/stone ratio, TSS (Total soluble solids), glucose, fructose, sucrose, total phenols, total antioxidant activity (FRAP and ABTS assays) and bud break, first bloom, full bloom, and harvesting date of apricot cultivar candidates were compared with cultivar Hac\xc4\xb1halilo\xc4\x9flu 'HH.' According to the obtained results, the higher content of total phenolic compounds and total antioxidant activity was determined in the N95 genotype (96.87\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5mol TE/g) fruit, whereas the 'HH' cultivar was characterized by the lower value (94.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5mol TE/g) especially determined by FRAP method. Individual sugars and the soluble solids content of fruit differed between selected genotypes and 'HH' cultivar. Glucose, fructose, and sucrose contents were higher in all selected genotypes than in Hac\xc4\xb1halilo\xc4\x9flu cultivar. labels: #Minerals"
b'With the promotion of environmental protection in the construction industry, the mission to achieve more sustainable use of resources during the production process of concrete is also becoming important. This study was conducted to assess the environmental sustainability of concrete slurry waste (CSW) management by life cycle assessment (LCA) techniques, with the aim of identifying a resource-efficient solution for utilisation of CSW in the production of partition wall blocks. CSW is the dewatered solid residues deposited in the sedimentation tank after washing out over-ordered/rejected fresh concrete and concrete trucks in concrete batching plants. The reuse of CSW as recycled aggregates or a cementitious binder for producing partition wall blocks, and the life cycle environmental impact of the blocks were assessed and compared with the conventional one designed with natural materials. The LCA results showed that the partition wall blocks prepared with fresh CSW and recycled concrete aggregates achieved higher sustainability as it consumed 59% lower energy, emitted 66% lower greenhouse gases, and produced lesser amount of other environmental impacts than that of the conventional one. When the mineral carbonation technology was further adopted for blocks curing using CO2, the global warming potential of the corresponding blocks production process was negligible, and hence the carbonated blocks may be considered as carbon neutral eco-product. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mineralization of collagen fibrils is a regular combination process of organic and mineral components mainly involving calcium, phosphate and collagen. We report the influence of calcium to the self-assembly of collagen by changing the concentration of calcium ion in the process of mineralization. Low concentration of calcium results in the well collagen self-assembly while poor mineral crystallization. Relatively, high concentration of calcium can hinder collagen self-assembly, whereas it is benefited to mineral crystallization. We also reveal that collagen self-assembly happens in advance of the formation of better mineral crystals. These results interpret the mechanism of collagen mineralization further. labels: #Minerals'
b'The role of TNF-\xce\xb1 in bone healing process is still unclear and controversial. Although it is commonly believed that TNF-\xce\xb1 inhibits osteogenic differentiation, there are few reports that identified a crucial role of TNF-\xce\xb1 in enhancing bone regeneration process. The aim of this study was to prove that novel chitosan/\xce\xb2-1,3-glucan/HA scaffold (chit/glu/HA) may promote osteogenic differentiation via TNF-\xce\xb1-mediated mechanism and an autocrine stimulation of osteoblasts. It was demonstrated that normal human fetal osteoblasts (hFOB 1.19) maintained in conditioned medium containing increased level of TNF-\xce\xb1 and harvested from hFOB 1.19 cells cultured on the chit/glu/HA scaffold (CM-chit/glu/HA) were in more advanced phase of osteogenic differentiation compared to the osteoblasts cultured in non-conditioned osteogenic medium and conditioned medium harvested from hFOB 1.19 cells cultured on the polystyrene plate. Cells cultured in CM-chit/glu/HA produced significantly more Col I protein, revealed 2-fold higher bALP activity, deposited 3-fold more calcium phosphate, and formed mineralized nodules. Thus, it was demonstrated that novel chit/glu/HA scaffold is promising material for bone regeneration applications to stimulate accelerated new bone formation as it enhances osteogenic differentiation via increasing TNF-\xce\xb1 production by osteoblasts. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Proanthocyanidin has been shown to enhance dentine collagen stability and remineralization of artificial root caries.OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effect of proanthocyanidin (PA) in combination with tri-calcium phosphate (TCP) and fluoride (F) on resistance to collagen degradation and remineralization of artificial caries lesions.METHODS: Demineralized root fragments (n=75) were randomly divided into five groups based on treatments: (i) 6.5% PA, (ii) TCP+F, (iii) TCP+F+6.5% PA, (iv) 1000ppm fluoride (Positive control) and (v) deionized water (control). Each specimen was subjected to pH cycling at 37oC for 8days. Lesion depth and mineral loss were evaluated using microradiography and confocal laser scanning microscopy. The type of crystal formation was determined by XRD spectra. To evaluate the stability of root caries lesions against collagenase challenge, highly purified type VII collagenase from Clostridium was added to obtain a remineralizing solution that contained 7.5U/mL collagenase and pH cycling was repeated. The different remineralizing solutions were collected after the pH cycling to assess the amount of hydroxyproline release. Collagen degradation depth and lesion depth were evaluated using transverse microradiography. Resistance to collagen degradation was determined using hydroxyproline assay. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA and Tukey multiple comparison tests.RESULTS: Results of one-way ANOVA showed that the test solutions had a significant effect on mineral loss (p<0.001) and lesion depth (p<0.001) of artificial root caries. The lowest lesion depth and mineral loss were observed in the TCP+F+PA (p<0.05) group. The XRD patterns showed hydroxyapatite formation on TCP+F-treated artificial caries lesions, which were not altered by the addition of PA. The addition of PA to TCP+F significantly reduced collagen degradation depth, when compared to TCP only group (p<0.001). Lesion depth was the lowest in the PA and TCP+F+PA groups following collagenase degradation (p<0.001). The addition of PA to TCP+F also decreased hydroxyproline release, when compared to TCP+F group (p<0.001).CONCLUSION: The addition of PA to TCP+F reduced collagen degradation, inhibited demineralization and enhanced remineralization. labels: #Minerals'
b'Three different organic-phosphorus-mineralizing bacteria (OPMB) strains were inoculated to soil planted with soybean (Glycine max), and their effects on soybean growth and indigenous bacterial community diversity were investigated. Inoculation with Pseudomonas fluorescens Z4-1 and Brevibacillus agri L7-1 increased organic phosphorus degradation by 22% and 30%, respectively, compared with the control at the mature stage. Strains P. fluorescens Z4-1 and B. agri L7-1 significantly improved the soil alkaline phosphatase activity, average well color development, and the soybean root activity. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis demonstrated that P. fluorescens Z4-1 and B. agri L7-1 could persist in the soil at relative abundances of 2.0%-6.4% throughout soybean growth. Thus, P. fluorescens Z4-1 and B. agri L7-1 could potentially be used in organic-phosphorus-mineralizing biofertilizers. OPMB inoculation altered the genetic structure of the soil bacterial communities but had no apparent influence on the carbon source utilization profiles of the soil bacterial communities. Principal components analysis showed that the changes in the carbon source utilization profiles of bacterial community depended mainly on the plant growth stages rather than inoculation with OPMB. The results help to understand the evolution of the soil bacterial community after OPMB inoculation. labels: #Minerals'
b'Increased sow milk production is associated with an increase in unexplained sow mortality during prepartum and early postpartum periods. This association has led to purported claims of hypocalcemic disorders. Assuming similar responses as dairy cows, feeding anionic mineral salts in late gestation and early lactation may reduce potential hypocalcemia related disorders in sows. Two experiments using CAD-MATE (Granco Minerals, Petersburg, VA), an acidogenic mineral supplement (AMS), were designed to determine the amount required to increase urinary Ca excretion and to identify renal compensatory responses to acid loads in sows. In Exp. 1, 30 multiparous gestating sows (Landrace \xc3\x97 Large White) were fed 1 of 6 diets with either 0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, or 2.5% AMS additions for 14 d. Diets provided a range (33 to -216 mEq/kg) of cation-anion balance, calculated as Na + K - Cl - S. Two 24-h urine samples were collected via bladder catheters for mineral analysis. One venous blood sample was drawn from 2 sows per diet on d 14. In Exp. 2, twelve sows were fed 1 of 3 diets to provide either 0, 1.5, or 2.5% AMS. Three 24-h composites of urine and fecal excreta were collected and analyses were used to calculate apparent mineral retention. Venous blood pH (range 7.41 to 7.33) and base excess (range 5.4 to 0.5 mmol/L) decreased (linear,<0.10), but blood ionized Ca (range 1.28 to 1.37 mmol/L) increased (linear,<0.05) proportionally to dietary AMS additions. Blood anion gap was not affected by diet. Urine pH decreased (linear,<0.10) with additions of AMS (range 7.47 to 5.52). In Exp. 2, urinary SO (range 134 to 396 mEq/d) and NH (range 84 to 323 mEq/d) excretion increased (<0.05) with AMS additions. Urinary Mg, Na, and K excretion did not differ among treatments. Fecal excretion of Ca, Mg, and P increased (<0.05) in sows fed diets with 2.5% AMS. Fecal K, Na, and Cl excretion did not differ among treatments. Apparent Ca retention decreased (<0.05) with AMS additions, but apparent Mg and Cl retention increased (<0.05). In conclusion, AMS induced a renal compensated acid load as exhibited by urinary ion excretion patterns and maintenance of blood gas values within physiological ranges. Feeding diets with 1.5 or 2.5% AMS increased urinary and fecal Ca excretion and decreased apparent Ca retention implying an increase in mobilization of body Ca pools in prepartum sows. labels: #Minerals'
b'Biochar and mineral-enriched biochar (MEB) have been used as soil amendments to improve soil fertility, sequester carbon and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. Such beneficial outcomes could be partially mediated by soil bacteria, however little is known about how they directly interact with biochar or MEB. We therefore analyzed the diversity and functions of bacterial communities on the surfaces of one biochar and two different MEBs after a 140-day incubation in soil. The results show that the biochar and the MEBs harbor distinct bacterial communities to the bulk soil. Communities on biochar and MEBs were dominated by a novel Gammaproteobacterium. Genome reconstruction combined with electron microscopy and high-resolution elemental analysis revealed that the bacterium generates energy from the oxidation of iron that is present on the surface. Two other bacteria belonging to the genus Thiobacillus and a novel group within the Oxalbacteraceae were enriched only on the MEBs and they had the genetic capacity for thiosulfate oxidation. All three surface-enriched bacteria also had the capacity to fix carbon dioxide, either in a potentially strictly autotrophic or mixotrophic manner. Our results show the dominance of chemolithotrophic processes on the surface of biochar and MEB that can contribute to carbon sequestration in soil. labels: #Minerals'
b'The uptake of stable cesium (133Cs) by Calla palustris was evaluated from four different substrates: water, soil, keramzit (a clay granule) and water with the addition of a potassium compound, after an eight days exposure to a solution of 0.5mM cesium chloride. Stable cesium was used because it is commonly supposed that its uptake by plants is the same of that of radiocesium (137Cs). The plants were differentiated in their parts (roots, healthy leaves, dead leaves and flowers) and analyzed with ICP-MS. The lowest average concentration of absorbed Cs was found in plants exposed in soil (0.7mg/kg, S.D.=96.8), while the highest in plants exposed in water (147mg/kg, S.D.=51.7). During the experiment the water planted plants removed 31.6% of provided Cs while those planted in soil removed only 0.06%. The addition of potassium to water was tested because of the competition effect that arises between these two elements: this effect was confirmed with the result that the average uptake in the presence of potassium was lower (41mg/kg in exposed plants, S.D.=76.1). The uptake was also lower in the solid-based substrates (soil and keramzit), because of the known tendency of Cs to bind with soil particles, thus becoming less available to plants. There was no evidence that the different parts of the plant showed different uptake effectiveness, or that the health of the plant (evaluated with a qualitative method) had any effect on the uptake of Cs. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mechanical, microstructural properties, mineral content and bone mineral density (BMD) of the femur were evaluated in growing rats fed withOpuntia ficus indica(L.) Mill. (Cactaceae) cladodes at different maturity stages as calcium source. Male weanling rats were fed with cladodes at early maturity stage (25 and 60 days of age, belonging to groups N-60 and N-200, respectively) and cladodes at late maturity stage (100 and 135 days of age, belonging to groups N-400 and N-600, respectively) for 6 weeks. Additionally, a control group fed with calcium carbonate as calcium source was included for comparative purposes. All diets were fitted to the same calcium content (5 g/kg diet). The failure load of femurs was significantly lower (p\xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) in groups N-60 and N-200 in comparison to N-400, N-600 and control groups. The cortical width (Ct.Wi) and trabecular thickness (Tb.Th) of the femurs in control and N-600 groups were significantly higher (p\xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) than Ct.Wi and Tb.Th of femurs in groups N-60 and N-200. Trabecular separation of the femurs in N-60 and N-200 groups showed the highest values compared with all experimental groups. The highest calcium content in the femurs were observed in control, N-600 and N-400 groups; whereas the lowest phosphorus content in the bones were detected in N-200, N-600 and N-400 groups. Finally, the BMD in all experimental groups increased with age; nevertheless, the highest values were observed in N-600 and control groups during pubertal and adolescence stages. The results derived from this research demonstrate, for the first time, that the calcium found inOpuntia ficus indicacladodes is actually bioavailable and capable of improving mineral density and mechanical and microstructural properties of the bones. These findings suggest that the consumption of cladodes at late maturity stage within the diet might have a beneficial impact on bone health. labels: #Minerals'
b'Hybrid organic-inorganic frameworks provide numerous combinations of materials with a wide range of structural and electronic properties, which enable their use in various applications. In recent years, some of these hybrid materials-especially lead-based halide perovskites-have been successfully used for the development of highly efficient solar cells. The large variety of possible hybrid materials has inspired the search for other organic-inorganic frameworks that may exhibit enhanced performance over conventional lead halide perovskites. In this study, a new class of low-dimensional hybrid oxides for photovoltaic applications was developed by using electronic structure calculations in combination with analysis from existing materials databases, with a focus on vanadium oxide pyroxenes (tetrahedron-based frameworks), mainly due to their high stability and nontoxicity. Pyroxenes were screened with different cations [A]and detailed computational studies of their structural, electronic, optical and transport properties were performed. Low-dimensional hybrid vanadate pyroxenes [A]VO3(with molecular cations [A] and corner-sharing VO4tetrahedral chains) were found to satisfy all physical requirements needed to develop an efficient solar cell (a band gap of 1.0-1.7\xe2\x80\x85eV, strong light absorption and good electron-transport properties). labels: #Minerals'
b'In 1953, during the building restoration of San Michele church (Bono, Sardinia, 16th-19th Century), a high number of disarticulated skeletons were recovered. From a group of 412 hip bones, two of these, affected by several pathological lesions, were analysed. The two coxal bones can be referred to the same individual, an adult man. A multi-analytical study, started with the purpose of investigating the bone pathology, was extended to characterize the mineral components of a large representative set of bones from the same ossuary, all attributed to adult men who lived in the region four-two centuries ago. A quantitative ICP-AES analysis for Ca, Fe, Mg, Mn, Na, Pb and Zn was executed, and a chemometric investigation on the results was performed. This approach gave evidence of the effects of diagenesis, allowed some hypothesis of the incidence of the known dietary habits on bone composition, and completely differentiated the pathological bones from those of a normal population on the basis of the mineral composition. Moreover, porosity, crystallinity and FT-IR analysis were conducted on both non- and pathological sample. labels: #Minerals'
b'Gas-permeable membrane technology is useful to recover ammonia (NH3) from liquid manures. In this study, phosphorus (P) recovery via MgCl2precipitation was enhanced by combining it with NH3recovery through gas-permeable membranes. Anaerobically digested swine wastewater containing approximately 2300\xc2\xa0mg NH4+-N\xc2\xa0L-1and 450\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0P\xc2\xa0L-1was treated using submerged membranes plus low-rate aeration to recover the NH3from within the liquid and MgCl2to precipitate the P. The experiments included a first configuration where N and P were recovered sequentially and a second configuration with simultaneous recovery. The low-rate aeration reduced the natural carbonate, increased pH and accelerated NH3uptake by the gas-permeable membrane system, which in turn benefited P recovery. Phosphorus removal efficiency was>90% and P recovery efficiency was about 100%. With higher NH3capture, the recovered P contained higher P2O5content (37-46%,>98% available), similar to the composition of the biomineral newberyite (MgHPO4\xc2\xb73H2O). labels: #Minerals'
b'Clay minerals are quite vital in biogeochemical processes but the effect of organo-clays in the microbial degradation of crude oil polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons is not well understood. The role of organo-saponite and organo-montmorillonite in comparison with the unmodified clays in crude oil polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) removal via adsorption and biodegradation was studied by carrying out microcosm experiments in aqueous clay/oil systems with a hydrocarbon degrading microbial community that is predominantly alcanivorax spp. Montmorillonite and saponite samples were treated with didecyldimethylammonium bromide to produce organo-montmorillonite and organo-saponite used in this study. Obtained results indicate that clays with high cation exchange capacity (CEC) such as montmorillonite produced organo-clay (organomontmorillonite) that was not stimulatory to biodegradation of crude oil polycyclic aromatic compounds, especially the low molecular weight (LMW) ones, such as dimethylnaphthalenes. It is suggested that interaction between the organic phase of the organo-clay and the crude oil PAHs which is hydrophobic in nature must have reduced the availability of the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons for biodegradation. Organo-saponite did not enhance the microbial degradation of dimethylnaphthalenes but enhanced the biodegradation of some other PAHs such as phenanthrene. The unmodified montmorillonite enhanced the microbial degradation of the PAHs and is most likely to have done so as a result of its high surface area that allows the accumulation of microbes and nutrients enhancing their contact. labels: #Minerals'
b'The relationship between berry chemical composition, region of origin and quality grade was investigated for Chardonnay grapes sourced from vineyards located in seven South Australian Geographical Indications (GI). Measurements of basic chemical parameters, amino acids, elements, and free and bound volatiles were conducted for grapes collected during 2015 and 2016. Multiple factor analysis (MFA) was used to determine the sets of data that best discriminated each GI and quality grade. Important components for the discrimination of grapes based on GI were 2-phenylethanol, benzyl alcohol and C6 compounds, as well as Cu, Zn, and Mg, titratable acidity (TA), total soluble solids (TSS), and pH. Discriminant analysis (DA) based on MFA results correctly classified 100% of the samples into GI in 2015 and 2016. Classification according to grade was achieved based on the results for elements such as Cu, Na, Fe, volatiles including C6 and aryl alcohols, hydrolytically-released volatiles such as (Z)-linalool oxide and vitispirane, pH, TSS, alanine and proline. Correct classification through DA according to grade was 100% for both vintages. Significant correlations were observed between climate, GI, grade, and berry composition. Climate influenced the synthesis of free and bound volatiles as well as amino acids, sugars, and acids, as a result of higher temperatures and precipitation. labels: #Minerals'
b'PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Plants of the family Loasaceae are characterized by a usually dense indument of various trichome types, including two basically different types of mineralized, unicellular trichomes (stinging hairs or setae and scabrid-glochidiate trichomes). Mineralized trichomes have long been known to have silicified or calcified walls, but recent studies demonstrated that trichomes of Loasaceae may also contain calcium phosphate. The current study investigates the distribution of different biominerals in the mineralized trichomes across several different taxa.METHODS: Plants from cultivation were studied with scanning electron microscopy including energy dispersive x-ray analyses and element mapping.KEY RESULTS: The vast majority of the 31 species investigated had at least two different biominerals in their trichomes, and 22 had three different biominerals in their trichomes. Thirty of the species had calcium phosphate in their trichomes.Loasawas mostly free of silica, but contained calcium phosphate in trichome tips and barbs, whereas calcium phosphate and silica were found in representatives of other genera of the family (Blumenbachia,Caiophora,Nasa).CONCLUSIONS: Biomineralization is remarkably diversified between species, different trichome types and parts of the same trichome. Individual genera largely had different patterns of biomineralization. The presence of three biominerals in the trichomes of the basally branchingEucnide urensindicates either an early evolution and subsequent loss or several independent origins of multiple biomineralization. Differential biomineralization of the parts of individual, unicellular trichomes clearly indicates an extraordinary degree of physiological control over this process. labels: #Minerals'
b'H2S and NO are two important gasotransmitters that modulate stress responses in plants. There are the contradictory data on crosstalk between NO and H2S in the studies. Hence, in the present study, the role of interplay between NO and H2S was assessed on the Pb tolerance of Sesamum indicum using pharmacological and biochemical approaches. Results revealed that Pb stress reduced the plant growth and the content of photosynthetic pigments and Fv/Fm ratio, increased the lipid peroxidation and the H2O2content, elevated the endogenous contents of nitric oxide (NO), H2S and enhanced the activities of antioxidant enzymes (except APX). Additionally, concentrations of most mineral ions (K, P, Mg, Fe, Mn and Zn) in both shoots and roots decreased. Pb accumulation in roots was more than it in shoots. Both sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS as a donor of H2S) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP as an NO donor) improved the plant growth, the chlorophyll and carotenoid contents and PSII efficiency, reduced oxidative damage, increased the activities of antioxidant enzymes and reduced the proline content in Pb-stressed plants. Furthermore, both NaHS and SNP significantly restricted the uptake and translocation of Pb, thereby minimizing antagonistic effects of Pb on essential mineral contents in sesame plants. NaHS increased the NO generation and many NaHS-induced responses were completely reversed by cPTIO, as the specific NO scavenger. Applying SNP also enhanced H2S release levels in roots of Pb-stressed plants and only some NO-driven effects were partially weakened by hypotuarine (HT), as the scavenger of H2S.These findings proposed for the first time that two-sided interplay between H2S and NO might confer an increased tolerance to Pb stress via activating the antioxidant systems, reducing the uptake and translocation of Pb, and harmonizing the balance of mineral nutrient. labels: #Minerals'
b'Fractures and pores in basalt could provide substantial pore volume and surface area of reactive minerals for carbonate mineral formation in geologic carbon sequestration. In many fractures solute transport will be limited to diffusion, and opposing chemical gradients that form as a result of concentration differences can lead to spatial distribution of silicate mineral dissolution and carbonate mineral precipitation. Glass tubes packed with grains of olivine or basalt with different grain sizes and compositions were used to explore the identity and spatial distribution of carbonate minerals that form in dead-end one-dimensional diffusion-limited zones that are connected to a larger reservoir of water in equilibrium with 100 bar CO2at 100 \xc2\xb0C. Magnesite formed in experiments with olivine, and Mg- and Ca-bearing siderite formed in experiments with flood basalt. The spatial distribution of carbonates varied between powder packed beds with different powder sizes. Packed beds of basalt powder with large specific surface areas sequestered more carbon per unit basalt mass than powder with low surface area. The spatial location and extent of carbonate mineral formation can influence the overall ability of fractured basalt to sequester carbon. labels: #Minerals'
b'Bacteria play important roles in mineral weathering and soil formation. However, little is known about the nutrition-related changes in mineral weathering potential and pattern of bacteria. In this study, mineral weathering behaviors of a novel mineral-weathering bacterium Chitinophaga jiangningensis JN53 were characterized in the presence of three contrasting biotite or potassium feldspar-added media. C. jiangningensis JN53 increased more Fe release from the minerals in the M-BHm (nutrition-poor medium) than in the SSKM (nutrition-rich medium) and BHm (nutrition-moderate medium), while C. jiangningensis JN53 released more Al from the minerals and Si from biotite in the SSKM. Similar Si release from potassium feldspar by C. jiangningensis JN53 was observed in the SSKM, BHm, and M-BHm. K releasing ability of C. jiangningensis JN53 was significantly higher in the biotite-added M-BHm. Highest and lowest growth of C. jiangningensis JN53 was observed in the SSKM and M-BHm, respectively. In the presence of the minerals, C. jiangningensis JN53 mainly produced gluconic acid in the SSKM and acetic acid in the BHm and M-BHm. C. jiangningensis JN53 also produced large amount of succinic acid in the biotite-added SSKM and oxalic acid in the potassium feldspar-added M-BHm. The results showed the growth, production of organic acids, and mineral weathering ability of C. jiangningensis JN53 in the three contrasting nutrition conditions. The results also suggested the change in the mineral weathering behaviors of C. jiangningensis JN53 under different levels of nutrition conditions. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objective of this study was to determine the possible source of predominant Bacillus licheniformis contamination in a whey protein concentrate (WPC) 80 manufacturing plant. Traditionally, microbial contaminants of WPC were believed to grow on the membrane surfaces of the ultrafiltration plant as this represents the largest surface area in the plant. Changes from hot to cold ultrafiltration have reduced the growth potential for bacteria on the membrane surfaces. Our recent studies of WPCs have shown the predominant microflora B. licheniformis would not grow in the membrane plant because of the low temperature (10 \xc2\xb0C) and must be growing elsewhere. Contamination of dairy products is mostly due to bacteria being released from biofilm in the processing plant rather from the farm itself. Three different reconstituted WPC media at 1%, 5%, and 20% were used for biofilm growth and our results showed that B. licheniformis formed the best biofilm at 1% (low solids). Further investigations were done using 3 different media; tryptic soy broth, 1% reconstituted WPC80, and 1% reconstituted WPC80 enriched with lactose and minerals to examine biofilm growth of B. licheniformis on stainless steel. Thirty-three B. licheniformis isolates varied in their ability to form biofilm on stainless steel with stronger biofilm in the presence of minerals. The source of biofilms of thermo-resistant bacteria such as B. licheniformis is believed to be before the ultrafiltration zone represented by the 1% WPC with lactose and minerals where the whey protein concentration is about 0.6%. labels: #Minerals'
b'Biomineralization is a common process in most vascular plants, but poorly investigated for trees. Although the presence of calcium oxalate and silica accumulation has been reported for some tree species, the chemical composition, abundance, and quantification of biominerals remain poorly documented. However, biominerals may play important physiological and structural roles in trees, especially in forest ecosystems, which are characterized by nutrient-poor soils. In this context, our study aimed at investigating the morphology, distribution, and relative abundance of biominerals in the different vegetative compartments (foliage, branch, trunk, and root) of Fagus sylvatica L. and Acer pseudoplatanus L. using a combination of scanning electron microscopy and tomography analyses. Biomineral crystallochemistry was assessed by X-ray diffraction and energy-dispersive X-ray analyses, while calcium, silicon, and oxalic acid were quantified in the compartments and at the forest scale. Our analyses revealed that biominerals occurred as crystals or coating layers mostly in bark and leaves and were identified as opal, whewellite, and complex biominerals. In both tree species, opal was mostly found in the external tissues of trunk, branch, and leaves, but also in the roots of beech. In the stand, opal represents around 170\xc2\xa0kg/ha. Whewellite was found to suit to conductive tissues (i.e., axial phloem parenchyma, vascular bundles, vessel element) in all investigated compartments of the two tree species. The shape of whewellite was prismatic and druses in beech, and almost all described shapes were seen in sycamore maple. Notably, the amount of whewellite was strongly correlated with the total calcium in all investigated compartments whatever the tree species is, suggesting a biologic control of whewellite precipitation. The amount of whewellite in the aboveground biomass of Montiers forest was more important than that of opal and was around 1170 kg/ha. Therefore, biominerals contribute in a substantial way to the biogeochemical cycles of silicon and calcium. labels: #Minerals'
b"The chemical characterization and antioxidant potential of twelve wild strains ofGanodermasp. from Ghana, nine (LS1-LS9) of which were found growing wild simultaneously on the same dyingDelonix regiatree, were evaluated. Parameters evaluated included the nutritional value, composition in sugars, fatty acids, phenolic and other organic compounds and some vitamins and vitamin precursors. Antioxidant potential was evaluated by investigating reducing power, radical scavenging activity and lipid peroxidation inhibition using five in vitro assays. Protein, carbohydrate, fat, ash and energy contents ranged between 15.7-24.5 g/100 g\xc2\xb7dw, 73.31-81.90 g/100 g, 0.48-1.40 g/100 g, 0.68-2.12 g/100 g ash and 396.1-402.02 kcal/100 g, respectively. Fatty acids such as linoleic, oleic and palmitic acids were relatively abundant. Free sugars included rhamnose, fructose, mannitol, sucrose and trehalose. Total tocopherols, organic acids and phenolic compounds' content ranged between 741-3191 \xc2\xb5g/100 g, 77-1003 mg/100 g and 7.6-489 \xc2\xb5g/100 g, respectively. There were variations in the \xce\xb2-glucans, ergosterol and vitamin D\xe2\x82\x82 contents. The three major minerals in decreasing order were K>P>S.Ganodermasp. strain AM1 showed the highest antioxidant activity. This study reveals, for the first time, chemical characteristics ofGanodermaspp. which grew simultaneously on the same tree. labels: #Minerals"
b'BACKGROUND: Tephrosia apollinea is a leguminous plant and is native to southwest Asia, Arabia, northwestern India and northeast Africa. In traditional system, it is used for medicinal and coloring purpose. The present study aims to explore the phytochemical, proximate analysis, element contents and antioxidant potential of T. apollinea extract.METHODS: The phytochemical screening was done with qualitative methods. Proximate analysis and elemental composition were performed from powdered sample. In vitro antioxidant assays such as 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radicals and reducing power-scavenging assays were used for evaluating the antioxidant properties.RESULTS: Qualitative screening of methanolic extract of T. apollinea showed the presence of alkaloids, phenolics, flavonoids, terpenoids, glycosides and saponins. The methanolic extract of T. apollinea exhibited a significant dose dependent inhibition of DPPH activity, with a 50% inhibition (IC50) at a concentration found to be 29.41\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5g/ml, which was compared with standard GAE (IC50\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa031.09\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml). The reducing power shows good linear relationship in both standard gallic acid (R2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.956) and T. apollinea extract (0.984).CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study clearly suggested that the methanolic extract of T. apollinea may serve as potential source of natural antioxidant for nutraceutical application. labels: #Minerals'
b'Petroleum hydrocarbon (PHC) degradation slows significantly during the winter which substantially increases the time it takes to remediate soil in Arctic landfarms. The aim of this laboratory trial was to assess the potential of a meat and bonemeal (MBM) biochar to stimulate PHC degradation in contaminated soil collected from Iqaluit, Canada. Over 90 days, 3% (w/w) MBM biochar significantly increased F3- (equivalent nC16-C34) PHC degradation rate constants (k) in frozen soils when compared to the fertilizer (urea and monoammonium phosphate) control. Taking into consideration extensive variability within treatments and negative k values, this difference may not reflect significant remediation. Decreasing C17/Pr and C18/Ph ratios in the frozen soil suggest that this reduction is a result of microbial degradation rather than volatilization. Amendment type and application rate affected the immediate abiotic losses of F2 and F3-PHC in sterile soils, with the greatest losses occurring in compost-amended treatments in the first 24\xc2\xa0h. In frozen soils, MBM biochar was found to increase liquid water content (\xce\xb8liquid) but not nutrient supply rates. Under frozen but not thawed conditions, genes for aromatic (C2,3O and nahAc) but not aliphatic (alkB) PHC degradation increased over time in both biochar-amended and control treatments but total viable PHC-degrading populations only increased in biochar-amended soils. Based on these results, it is possible that PHC degradation in biochar-amended soils is active and even enhanced under frozen conditions, but further investigation is required. labels: #Minerals'
b'The impact on U(VI) adsorbed to lepidocrocite (\xce\xb3-FeOOH) and hematite (\xce\xb1-Fe2O3) was assessed when exposed to aqueous sulfide (S(-II)aq) at pH 8.0. With both minerals, competition between S(-II) and U(VI) for surface sites caused instantaneous release of adsorbed U(VI). Compared to lepidocrocite, consumption of S(-II)aqproceeded slower with hematite, but yielded maximum dissolved U concentrations that were more than 10 times higher, representing about one-third of the initially adsorbed U. Prolonged presence of S(-II)aqin experiments with hematite in combination with a larger release of adsorbed U(VI), enhanced the reduction of U(VI): after 24 h of reaction about 60-70% of U was in the form of U(IV), much higher than the 25% detected in the lepidocrocite suspensions. X-ray absorption spectra indicated that U(IV) in both hematite and lepidocrocite suspensions was not in the form of uraninite (UO2). Upon exposure to oxygen only part of U(IV) reoxidized, suggesting that monomeric U(IV) might have become incorporated in newly formed iron precipitates. Hence, sulfidization of Fe oxides can have diverse consequences for U mobility: in short-term, desorption of U(VI) increases U mobility, while reduction to U(IV) and its possible incorporation in Fe transformation products may lead to long-term U immobilization. labels: #Minerals'
b'Disposal of hair wastes at landfills causes nitrate leaching to ground water, and use of the waste as fertiliser could be a viable option. This study was to determine elemental composition of major hair types in South Africa and their nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) release in soil. Wastes of African, White and Indian hair were obtained from local salons and analysed for carbon (C), N and sulphur (S) with the Leco CNS analyzer, and P, bases, aluminium (Al) and micronutrients, with the ICP. We also conducted an incubation study to determine changes in mineral N and P in soil. Hair wastes were added to soil at increasing rates based on N, incubated at 25\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C with destructive sampling after 0, 28, 56 and 84\xc2\xa0days and pH, ammonium-N, nitrate-N and extractable P measured. All data were subjected to analysis of variance. Indian and White hair had higher N than African. White hair had higher C and lower potassium (K) than those of other types. The Fe levels in hair were in the order White\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0African\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0Indian, whilst those of Al were African\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0Indian\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0White. African hair had higher calcium (Ca), manganese (Mn), zinc (Zn) and cobalt (Co) than the other types. Ammonium-N and nitrate-N releases were in the order: Indian\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0African\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0White, especially at higher rates. Ammonium-N increased in the first 28\xc2\xa0days and declined thereafter, when nitrate-N increased and pH decreased. The findings implied that hair types differ in elemental composition and nitrogen release in soil, with implications on pollution and soil fertility. labels: #Minerals'
b'A series of mesoporous silicate adsorbents with superior adsorption performance for hazardous chlortetracycline (CTC) were sucessfully prepared via a facile one-pot hydrothermal reaction using low-cost illite/smectite (IS) clay, sodium silicate and magnesium sulfate as the starting materials. In this process, IS clay was "teared up" and then "rebuilt" as new porous silicate adsorbent with high specific surface area of 363.52m2/g (about 8.7 folds higher than that of IS clay) and very negative Zeta potential (-34.5mV). The inert SiOSi (Mg, Al) bonds in crystal framework of IS were broken to form Si(Al) O-groups with good adsorption activity, which greatly increased the adsorption sites served for holding much CTC molecules. Systematic evaluation on adsorption properties reveals the optimal silicate adsorbent can adsorb 408.81mg/g of CTC (only 159.7mg/g for raw IS clay) and remove 99.3% (only 46.5% for raw IS clay) of CTC from 100mg/L initial solution (pH3.51; adsorption temperature 30\xc2\xb0C; adsorbent dosage, 3g/L). The adsorption behaviors of CTC onto the adsorbent follows the Langmuir isotherm model, Temkin equation and pseudo second-order kinetic model. The mesopore adsorption, electrostatic attraction and chemical association mainly contribute to the enhanced adsorption properties. As a whole, the high-efficient silicate adsorbent could be candidates to remove CTC from the wastewater with high amounts of CTC. labels: #Minerals'
b'Safety assessment of genetically modified plants is an important aspect prior to deregulation. Demonstration of substantial equivalence of the transgenics compared to their nontransgenic counterparts can be performed using different techniques at various molecular levels. The present study is a first-ever comprehensive evaluation of pigeon pea transgenics harboring two independent cry genes, cry2Aa and cry1AcF. The absence of unintended effects in the transgenic seed components was demonstrated by proteome and nutritional composition profiling. Analysis revealed that no significant differences were found in the various nutritional compositional analyses performed. Additionally, 2-DGE-based proteome analysis of the transgenic and nontransgenic seed protein revealed that there were no major changes in the protein profile, although a minor fold change in the expression of a few proteins was observed. Furthermore, the study also demonstrated that neither the integration of T-DNA nor the expression of the cry genes resulted in the production of unintended effects in the form of new toxins or allergens. labels: #Minerals'
b'This cross-sectional, population-based study aimed to estimate the prevalence of dietary mineral inadequacies among residents in urban areas of Sao Paulo, to identify foods contributing to mineral intake and to verify possible associations between socio-demographic and lifestyle factors and mineral intake. Data were obtained from the 2008 Health Survey of Sao Paulo (n 1511; mean age 43\xc2\xb76 (sd 23\xc2\xb72), range 14-97 years). Dietary intake of minerals was measured using two 24-h dietary recalls. Socio-demographic and lifestyle data were collected. The prevalence of inadequate intake was estimated according to Dietary Reference Intakes methods. Associations between mineral intake and baseline factors were determined using multiple linear regression. Na, Ca and Mg showed the highest dietary inadequacies. Some age/sex groups had lower intakes of P, Zn, Cu and Se. Rice, beans and bread were the main foods contributing towards mineral intake. Female sex was negatively associated with K, Na, P, Mg, Zn and Mn intakes. All age groups were positively associated with the intakes of K, P, Mg and Mn. Family income above one minimum wage was positively associated with Se intake. Living in a household whose head completed \xe2\x89\xa510 years of education was positively associated with Ca and negatively associated with Na intake. Former smoker status was negatively associated with Ca intake. Current smoker status was inversely associated with K, Ca, P and Cu intakes. Sufficient physical activity was positively associated with K, Ca and Mg intakes. Overall, the intakes of all major minerals were inadequate and were influenced by socio-demographic and lifestyle factors. labels: #Minerals'
b'Clay minerals are the most popular adsorbents/amendments for immobilizing heavy metals in contaminated soils, but the dissolved organic matter (DOM) in soil environment would potentially affect the adsorption/immobilization capacity of clay minerals for heavy metals. In this study, the effects of DOM derived from chicken manure (CM) on the adsorption of cadmium (Cd2+) on two clay minerals, bentonite and zeolite, were investigated. The equilibrium data for Cd2+sorption in the absence or presence of CM-DOM could be well-fitted to the Langmuir equation (R2\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.97). The presence of CM-DOM in the aqueous solution was found to greatly reduce the adsorption capacity of both minerals for Cd2+, in particular zeolite, and the percentage decreases for Cd2+sorption increased with increasing concentrations of Cd2+as well as CM-DOM in aqueous solutions. The adsorption of CM-DOM on zeolite was greater than that on bentonite in the absence of Cd2+, however, a sharp increase was observed for CM-DOM sorption on bentonite with increasing Cd2+concentrations but little change for that on zeolite, which can be attributed to the different ternary structures on mineral surface. The CM-DOM modified clay minerals were utilized to investigate the effect of mineral-adsorbed CM-DOM on Cd2+sorption. The adsorbed form was found to inhibit Cd2+sorption, and further calculation suggested it primarily responsible for the overall decrease in Cd2+sorption on clay minerals in the presence of CM-DOM in aqueous solutions. An investigation for the mineral surface morphology suggested that the mineral-adsorbed CM-DOM decreased Cd2+sorption on bentonite mainly through barrier effect, while in the case of zeolite, it was the combination of active sites occupation and barrier effect. These results can serve as a guide for evaluating the performance of clay minerals in immobilizing heavy metals when animal manure is present in contaminated soils. labels: #Minerals'
b'Arsenic (As) in soils is often adsorbed on Fe-(hydro)oxides surface, rendering them more resistant to dissolution, which is undesirable for phytoremediation of As-contaminated soils. Arsenic hyperaccumulator Pteris vittata prefers to grow in calcareous soils where available Fe and As are low. To elucidate its mechanisms of acquiring Fe and As from insoluble sources in soils, we investigated dissolution of goethite with pre-adsorbed arsenate (AsV; As-goethite) in presence of four organic ligands, including two root exudates (oxalate and phytate, dominant in P.\xc2\xa0vittata) and two microbial siderophores (PG12-siderophore and desferrioxamine B). Their presence increased As solubilization from As-goethite from 0.03 to 0.27-5.33\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1compared to the control. The siderophore/phytate bi-ligand treatment released 7.42\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1soluble Fe, which was 1.2-fold that of the sum of siderophore and phytate, showing a synergy in promoting As-goethite dissolution. In the ligand-mineral-plant system, siderophore/phytate was most effective in releasing As and Fe from As-goethite. Moreover, the continuous plant uptake induced more As-goethite dissolution. The continued release of As and Fe significantly enhanced their plant uptake (from 0.01 to 0.43\xc2\xa0mg plant-1As and 2.7-14.8\xc2\xa0mg plant-1Fe) and plant growth (from 1.2 to 3.1\xc2\xa0g plant-1fw) in P.\xc2\xa0vittata. Since microbial siderophores and root exudates often coexist in soil rhizosphere, their synergy in enhancing dissolution of insoluble As-Fe minerals may play an important role in efficient phytoremediation of As-contaminated soils. labels: #Minerals'
b"Pyrite-rich sediments would, invariably, undergo redox reactions which would lead to acidic aqueous environment containing solubilized toxic metal species. When such sediments are subjected to preload, a technique employed by geotechnical engineers to improve the load-bearing capacity of highly compressible formation, transient flow of pore water, accompanied by acidity transfer, would occur as a response. Despite the concomitant environmental and socio-economic significance, to date, there has been limited interdisciplinary research on the underpinning geotechnical engineering and geo-environmental science issues for pyrite-rich sediments under preload. In this study, we investigate the effect of pyrite-rich sediment pore water transfer under preload surcharge on the receiving environment and the impact on the groundwater speciation and quality. Sediment samples were obtained at close depth intervals from boreholes established within pristine areas and those subjected to the preload application. Soil and pore water samples were subjected to solid/solution speciation, moisture contents, soil pH and the Atterberg Limits' analyses using standard analytical techniques and methods. Standpipes were also installed in the boreholes for groundwater sampling and in situ monitoring of water quality parameters. It is shown that the imposition of preload surcharge over pyritic sediment created a reducing environment rich in SO42-, iron oxide minerals and organic matter. This reducing environment fostered organic carbon catabolism to generate excess pyrite and bicarbonate alkalinity, which would invariably impact adversely on soil quality and plant growth. These were accompanied by increase in pH, dissolved Al, Ca, Mg and K species beneath the surcharge. labels: #Minerals"
b'In the Chinese national nutrition surveys, fortified foods were not investigated separately from the base diet, and the contribution of fortified foods to micronutrients intake is not very clear. This study investigated the diet, including fortified foods and food supplements, of urban pregnant women and analyzed the intake of calcium, iron, and zinc to assess the corresponding contributions of fortified foods, food supplements, and the base diet. The results demonstrated that the base diet was the major source of calcium, iron, and zinc, and was recommended to be the first choice for micronutrients intake. Furthermore, consumption of fortified foods and food supplements offered effective approaches to improve the dietary intake of calcium, iron, and zinc in Chinese urban pregnant women. labels: #Minerals'
b'Sulfide mineral precipitation occurs at mid-ocean ridge (MOR) spreading centers, both in the form of plume particles and seafloor massive sulfide structures. A common constituent of MOR is the iron-bearing sulfide mineral pyrrhotite, which was chosen as a substrate for in-situ incubation studies in shallow waters of Catalina Island, CA to investigate the colonization of iron-oxidizing bacteria. Microbial community datasets were obtained from in-situ incubated pyrrhotite, allowing for direct comparison to microbial communities of iron-sulfides from active and inactive chimneys in deep-sea environments. Unclassified Gammaproteobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria (Magnetovibrio) largely dominated the bacterial community on pyrrhotite samples incubated in the water column while samples incubated at the surface sediment showed more even dominance by Deltaproteobacteria (Desulfobulbus), Gammaproteobacteria (Piscirickettsiaceae), Alphaproteobacteria (Rhodobacteraceae), and Bacteroidetes (Flavobacteriia). Cultivations that originated from pyrrhotite samples resulted in the enrichment of both, sheath-forming and stalk-forming Zetaproteobacteria. Additionally, a putative novel species of Thiomicrospira was isolated and shown to grow autotrophically with iron, indicating a new biogeochemical role for this ubiquitous microorganism. labels: #Minerals'
b'The main factors affecting the mechanical (and other) properties of bone, including antler, are the proportions of ash (especially Ca and P) and collagen content. However, some trace minerals may also play more important roles than would be expected, given their low levels in bone and antler. One such trace mineral is Cu. Here, we studied the effects of Cu supplementation on the mechanical and structural characteristics, and mineral content of antlers from yearling and adult (4 years of age) red deer fed a balanced diet. Deer (n=35) of different ages (21 yearlings and 14 adults) were studied. A total of 18 stags (11 yearlings and 7 adults) were injected with Cu (0.83 mg Cu/kg BW) every 42 days, whereas the remaining 17 (10 yearlings and 7 adults) were injected with physiological saline solution (control group). The Cu content of serum was analysed at the beginning of the trial and 84 days after the first injection to assess whether the injected Cu was mobilized in blood. Also, the mechanical and structural properties of antlers and the mineral content in their cortical walls were examined at three (yearlings) or four (adults) points along the antler beam. The effect of Cu supplementation was different in yearlings and adults. In yearlings, supplementation increased the Cu content of serum by 28%, but did not affect antler properties. However, in adults, Cu supplementation increased the Cu content of serum by 38% and tended to increase the cortical thickness of antlers (P=0.06). Therefore, we conclude that, even in animals receiving balanced diets, supplementation with Cu could increase antler cortical thickness in adult deer, although not in yearlings. This may improve the trophy value of antlers, as well as having potential implications for bones in elderly humans, should Cu supplementation have similar effects on bones as those observed in antlers. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Vitamins, minerals and food supplements (FSs) are often used without medical prescription. Valid data on the magnitude of use are rare in Germany. The aim of the present analysis is to describe the prevalence and trends of self-medication and the associations between health-related factors and self-medication with these substances.METHODS: The data base consisted of the results of nationwide health surveys (GNHIES98: 1997-1999 and DEGS1: 2008-2001) in which adults aged 18-79\xc2\xa0years were interviewed on health-related themes and were examined. The use of drugs and FSs was recorded in standardized personal interviews. Data of 7099 (GNHIES98) and 7091 (DEGS1) individuals were available for analysis. The dependent variable was self-medication with vitamins, minerals and FS. Analysis was conducted in SPSS Version\xc2\xa020 with the complex sample method. Statistical significance was tested with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) and verified via p-values.RESULTS: Of all DEGS1 participants, 18.1% (95% CI: 17.0-19.2%) consumed vitamins, minerals and FSs in self-medication. Significantly higher prevalence was found among women, older people (60-79\xc2\xa0years), those with a\xc2\xa0higher social status, people living alone, ex- and non-smokers, and those doing more sports. In comparison to the GNHIES98 study the prevalence in DEGS1 has increased by about 6 percentage points (5.8\xc2\xa0percentage points, 95% CI 4.1-7.5%, p\xc2\xa0<0.001). This increase remained significant when socio-demographic and health-relevant factors were considered simultaneously (odds ratio (OR): 1.49, 95% CI 1.27-1.75).CONCLUSION: In Germany self-medication with vitamins, minerals or FSs shows a\xc2\xa0high user prevalence which has increased significantly over time. In light of potential interactions with prescribed medicines the results show the importance of ascertaining self-medication with vitamins, minerals and FSs in medical practice. labels: #Minerals'
b'Atrophic non-unions are a major clinical problem. Mineral coated microparticles (MCM) are electrolyte-coated hydroxyapatite particles that have been shown in vitro to bind growth factors electrostatically and enable a tuneable sustained release. Herein, we studied whether MCM can be used in vivo to apply Bone Morphogenetic Protein-2 (BMP-2) to improve bone repair of atrophic non-unions. For this purpose, atrophic non-unions were induced in femurs of CD-1 mice (n = 48). Animals either received BMP-2-coated MCM (MCM + BMP; n = 16), uncoated MCM (MCM; n = 16) or no MCM (NONE; n = 16). Bone healing was evaluated 2 and 10 weeks postoperatively by micro-computed tomographic (\xc2\xb5CT), biomechanical, histomorphometric and immunohistochemical analyses. \xc2\xb5CT revealed more bone volume with more highly mineralised bone in MCM + BMP femurs. Femurs of MCM + BMP animals showed a significantly higher bending stiffness compared to other groups. Histomorphometry further demonstrated that the callus of MCM + BMP femurs was larger and contained more bone and less fibrous tissue. After 10 weeks, 7 of 8 MCM + BMP femurs presented with complete osseous bridging, whereas NONE femurs exhibited a non-union rate of 100 %. Of interest, immunohistochemistry could not detect macrophages within the callus, indicating a good biocompatibility of MCM. In conclusion, the local application of BMP-2-coated MCM improved bone healing in a challenging murine non-union model and, thus, should be of clinical interest in the treatment of non-unions. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Gaultheria trichophylla (Royle) is used as food and for treating many ailments in folk medicine especially against inflammation. The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the ability of extracts of G. trichophylla as anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory agent and for its mineral contents.METHODS: Powdered plant material (100\xc2\xa0g) was extracted with 100\xc2\xa0ml each of methanol, chloroform, and n-hexane using soxhlet extractor. Antioxidant activity of methanol extract was assessed by DPPH radical scavenging and FRAP assays. Determination of enzyme inhibition activity was determined using 5-LOX inhibitory activity. Total phenolic and flavonoids contents were measured by Folin-Chicalteu and colorimeteric methods respectively. Minerals and heavy metals contents were determined using Atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Qualitative HPLC analysis were performed using some standard phenolic compounds.RESULTS: The highest phenolic (17.5\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.5\xc2\xa0mg GA equivalent/g) and flavonoids (41.3\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.1\xc2\xa0mg QE equivalent/g) concentrations were found in methanol extract, which also showed more scavenging activity of 1, 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl and ferrous reducing power with IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8981.2\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.2 and IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8911.2\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml, respectively. The methanol and chloroform extracts showed best inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase enzyme with 90.5\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.7% and 66.9\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.1% at 0.5\xc2\xa0mg/ml, respectively. G. trichophylla extract was also evaluated for mineral contents (K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe, and Cu), and for chemical profiling of heavy metals (Cr, Pb, Cd, Co, Zn, Ni and Hg).CONCLUSION: Our current findings suggest that this plant is good source of minerals and concentration of all heavy metals were within permissible limits. The results revealed that this ignored plant has great pharmaceutical and nutraceutical potential. labels: #Minerals'
b"BACKGROUND: Limited knowledge regarding the reproducibility of biomarkers in 24-h urine samples has hindered the collection and use of the samples in epidemiologic studies.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the reproducibility of various markers in repeat 24-h urine samples.DESIGN: We calculated intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) of biomarkers measured in 24-h urine samples that were collected in 3168 participants in the NHS (Nurses' Health Study), NHSII (Nurses' Health Study II), and Health Professionals Follow-Up Study.RESULTS: In 742 women with 4 samples each collected over the course of 1 y, ICCs for sodium were 0.32 in the NHS and 0.34 in the NHSII. In 2439 men and women with 2 samples each collected over 1 wk to \xe2\x89\xa51 mo, the ICCs ranged from 0.33 to 0.68 for sodium at various intervals between collections. The urinary excretion of potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphate, sulfate, and other urinary markers showed generally higher reproducibility (ICCs>0.4). In 47 women with two 24-h urine samples, ICCs ranged from 0.15 (catechin) to 0.75 (enterolactone) for polyphenol metabolites. For phthalates, ICCs were generally \xe2\x89\xa40.26 except for monobenzyl phthalate (ICC: 0.55), whereas the ICC was 0.39 for bisphenol A (BPA). We further estimated that, for the large majority of the biomarkers, the mean of three 24-h urine samples could provide a correlation of \xe2\x89\xa50.8 with true long-term urinary excretion.CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the urinary excretion of various biomarkers, such as minerals, electrolytes, most polyphenols, and BPA, is reasonably reproducible in 24-h urine samples that are collected within a few days or \xe2\x89\xa41 y. Our findings show that three 24-h samples are sufficient for the measurement of long-term exposure status in epidemiologic studies. labels: #Minerals"
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Little is known about purchasing micronutrient powders (MNP) for children 2-5 years. We describe acceptability for purchasing and price points for MNP for children 2-5 years among caregivers living in districts where free MNP are distributed for children 6-23 months.METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: Crosssectional surveys conducted 3 months after MNP program implementation in 2 districts; 15 months after implementation in 2 different districts. Chi square tests and logistic regression describe associations among sociodemographics and program exposure factors and acceptability of purchasing MNP among 1,261 mothers of children 6-23 months who had heard of MNP.RESULTS: Overall, 77.5% and 86.1% of mothers reported acceptability for purchasing MNP in the 3 and 15 month surveys, respectively. Positive pricing attitude (PPA) about paying 150 Nepali rupees for 60 sachets of MNP was reported by 66.3% and 73.4% of mothers. Acceptability for purchasing MNP in both time periods increased with higher wealth quintile and higher maternal education; PPA increased with higher maternal education. Controlling for socio-demographics, program exposure factors associated with acceptability for purchasing MNP included: lack of perceived barriers to MNP intake and health worker counselling (3 month surveys); knowledge of benefits of MNP intake and lack of perceived barriers to MNP intake (15 month surveys).CONCLUSIONS: Mothers reported acceptability for purchasing MNP and PPA for older children in Nepal. Differences in acceptability were found across socio-demographics and program exposures. Use of these results and further exploration into actual purchasing behaviour can inform future MNP distribution methods in Nepal. labels: #Minerals'
b"Nutritional standards are important guidelines for providing students with nutritionally-balanced school meals. This study compared nutrient-based school lunch standards regulated by South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan. The data were collected from relevant literature and websites of each country during September 2014. The number of classification groups of target students was 8, 5, and 5 for South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan, respectively. Gender was considered across all age groups in South Korea but only for high school students in Taiwan. Gender was not considered in Japan. Along with energy, the number of nutrients included in the standards for South Korea, Japan and Taiwan was 9, 12, and 4, respectively. The standards for all three countries included protein and fat among macronutrients. The standards for South Korea and Japan included vitamin A, B-1, B-2, and C, while the standards for Taiwan did not include any vitamins. Calcium was the only mineral commonly included in the three standards. The proportions of recommended daily intakes as reference values for each nutrient differed among the countries. Japan differentiated the proportions among 33%, 40%, or 50%, reflecting the target students' intake status of the respective nutrients. Taiwan differentiated either two-fifths or one-third of the recommended daily intakes. South Korea applied the proportion of recommended daily intake as one-third for all selected nutrients. This study could be valuable information for countries in developing nutrient-based standards for school lunches and for South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan in the process of reforming nutrient-based standards. labels: #Minerals"
b'Macro- and microminerals are required for all physiological processes in beef cattle. When mineral deficiencies occur in pasture-based production systems, a multitude of deficiency symptoms may occur, and most often, these deficiencies result in hidden losses to include reduced production potential, reduced immunity, and reproductive failure. More severe deficiencies will result in specific deficiency symptoms, depending on the specific mineral deficiency. In pasture-based beef operations, specific deficiency symptoms are seldom observed. Forage mineral supply is highly variable and dependent on the forage type, stage of forage growth, and soil fertility. Grazing cattle mineral requirements change throughout the production cycle. With the variability of forage mineral supply and the changing mineral requirements, care must be taken when developing mineral supplementation programs for grazing cattle. The macrominerals function in nerve transmission, bone development, and metabolism and as electrolytes. These are Ca, P, Mg, Na, K, Cl, and S. The microminerals function in various areas of metabolism, immune responsiveness, reproductive efficiency, and many other functions. These minerals are Zn, Cu, Fe, I, Mn, Se, Mo, and Co. Of these macro- and microminerals, those that are important for supplementation to pasture-based cattle include Ca, P, Mg, Na, Cl, Zn, Cu, I, Mn, Se, and Co. However, the amounts to be supplemented will depend on the specific mineral requirements and the forage supply of the minerals. Consequently, the development of free-choice mineral supplementation programs is a moving target. Generally, this entangled mess is sorted by taking one mineral at a time into consideration. However, in doing so, one has to be cognizant of the many interactions that occur when changing intake of just 1 mineral in the supplement with respect to the amount supplied in the base forage. Often times, mineral nutrition problems of one or more minerals are created when trying to correct a deficiency of another mineral. This paper will address specific factors that are important to consider when developing and delivering mineral supplementation programs in pasture-based production systems in the Southeastern United States. labels: #Minerals'
b'Two experiments were conducted to determine the requirement for standardized total tract digestible (STTD) Ca by 25 to 50 kg pigs at different concentrations of STTD P. Twenty corn-soybean meal based diets were formulated with diets containing 4 concentrations of STTD P (0.15, 0.31, 0.39, or 0.47%) and 5 concentrations of STTD Ca (0.13, 0.27, 0.42, 0.57, or 0.72%). Diets were mixed in 1 batch and were used in both experiments. In Exp. 1, 240 pigs (initial average BW: 24.70 \xc2\xb1 1.27 kg) were randomly allotted to the 20 diets in 6 blocks with 1 pen per diet in each block using a 4 \xc3\x97 5 factorial design. There was 1 gilt and 1 barrow in each pen. At the conclusion of the 28 d experiment, all barrows were euthanized and the right femur was collected. Results indicated that there were interactions (<0.001) between concentration of STTD Ca and concentration of STTD P in diets for ADG, G:F, and bone ash. The predicted maximum ADG at STTD P concentrations of 0.15, 0.31, 0.39, and 0.47% were 0.76, 0.87, 0.90, and 0.92 kg at STTD Ca concentrations of 0.12, 0.36, 0.47, and 0.59%, respectively, which correspond to STTD Ca:STTD P ratios of 0.80:1, 1.16:1, 1.21:1, and 1.26:1. The predicted maximum G:F ratio at the 4 STTD P concentrations were 0.43, 0.46, 0.48, and 0.50 kg/kg at STTD Ca concentrations of 0.09, 0.38, 0.52, and 0.67%, respectively, and these values correspond to STTD Ca:STTD P ratios of 0.60:1, 1.23:1, 1.33:1, and 1.43:1. The predicted maximum bone ash at the 4 STTD P concentrations were 14.5, 21.0, 23.1, and 24.5 g at STTD Ca concentrations of 0.41, 0.56, 0.64, and 0.72%, respectively, which correspond to STTD Ca:STTD P ratios of 2.73:1, 1.81:1, 1.64:1, and 1.53:1. In Exp. 2, 120 pigs (initial average BW: 29.45 \xc2\xb1 2.15 kg) were placed in metabolism crates and randomly allotted to the 20 diets in 6 blocks with 1 pig per diet in each block. Fecal and urine samples were collected. Results indicated that the predicted maximum retention of Ca in the body at STTD P concentrations of 0.15, 0.31, 0.39, and 0.47% were 4.7, 7.1, 8.6, and 10.2 g/d at STTD Ca concentrations of 0.77, 0.96, 1.06, and 1.15%, respectively, which correspond to STTD Ca:STTD P ratios of 5.13:1, 3.10:1, 2.72:1, and 2.45:1. These observations indicate that if STTD P meets or exceeds the requirement, the STTD Ca:STTD P ratio needed to maximize ADG and G:F by 25 to 50 kg pigs is between 1.16:1 and 1.43:1. However, a greater ratio may be needed to maximize bone ash or Ca retention. labels: #Minerals'
b'With the growing limitations on arable land, alfalfa (a widely cultivated, low-input forage) is now being selected to extend cultivation into saline lands for low-cost biofeedstock purposes. Here, minerals and transcriptome profiles were compared between two new salinity-tolerant North American alfalfa breeding populations and a more salinity-sensitive western Canadian alfalfa population grown under hydroponic saline conditions. All three populations accumulated two-fold higher sodium in roots than shoots as a function of increased electrical conductivity. At least 50% of differentially expressed genes (p<0.05) were down-regulated in the salt-sensitive population growing under high salinity, while expression remained unchanged in the saline-tolerant populations. In particular, most reduction in transcript levels in the salt-sensitive population was observed in genes specifying cell wall structural components, lipids, secondary metabolism, auxin and ethylene hormones, development, transport, signalling, heat shock, proteolysis, pathogenesis-response, abiotic stress, RNA processing, and protein metabolism. Transcript diversity for transcription factors, protein modification, and protein degradation genes was also more strongly affected in salt-tolerant CW064027 than in salt-tolerant Bridgeview and salt-sensitive Rangelander, while both saline-tolerant populations showed more substantial up-regulation in redox-related genes and B-ZIP transcripts. The report highlights the first use of bulked genotypes as replicated samples to compare the transcriptomes of obligate out-cross breeding populations in alfalfa. labels: #Minerals'
b'The main purpose of this study was to test if microorganisms isolated from heavily polluted environments can enhance dissolution of Pb-apatite (pyromorphite) resulting in remobilization of lead. Three bacterial strains belonging to the genus Pseudomonas isolated from underground mines in SW Poland were used in batch experiments of pyromorphite solubilization carried out in phosphate reach and phosphate poor media. Bacteria growth and evolution of Pb and phosphate concentrations as well as pH were determined. Additionally the concentration of bacterial siderophores in leaching solution was assayed. All bacterial strains were able to grow in both media in the presence of pyromorphite. The number of bacterial cells was from one to two orders of magnitude higher in the phosphate rich media. In the phosphate poor media the only source of P was the dissolving lead apatite. Bacteria enhanced the solubility of pyromorphite resulting in elevated Pb concentrations, up to 853\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L-1in phosphate-rich medium and 6112\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L-1in phosphate-poor medium, compared to less than 100\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L-1in an abiotic control sample. Production of siderophores was characteristic for each culture and was much lower (10-1000 fold) in the phosphate-poor medium. This study demonstrates for the first time that indigenous bacteria can directly and indirectly promote the mobilization of lead from pyromorphite. This phenomenon should be considered in long term risk assessment of Pb contaminated soils after reclamation processes because bacteria can play a significant role in the efficiency of clean-up efforts and overall geochemical cycling of Pb. labels: #Minerals'
b'Measuring the electrical conductivity (EC) of milk during milking has been extensively studied in cattle as a low-cost mastitis detection method that can be easily automated. The aim of this work was to study the effect of the health status of the glands and several noninfectious factors (lactation stage, milking session, and lactation number) that affect the use of EC measurement of milk to detect mastitis in dairy sheep livestock. Likewise, we studied the relation between EC and milk composition (macrocomposition and mineral content) and between EC and somatic cell count (SCC). Finally, we evaluated the use of EC thresholds as a mastitis detection method. To this end, we monitored the glandular milk EC throughout 2 consecutive lactations, during which 42 and 40 ewes were controlled, respectively. We carried out 7 biweekly checks, analyzing the EC, SCC, composition, and mineral content of glandular milk at morning and evening milkings. Before the morning milking, samples were aseptically collected for bacteriological analysis, and the results along with the SCC were used to classify the glands according to their sanitary status (healthy, latently infected, or infected). Lactation stage, parity, milking (morning or evening), health status, and the interactions of parity with health status, lactation stage with health status, and parity with lactation stage all had a significant effect on SCC and EC of the milk. The correlation between EC and SCC was only significant when all the data were analyzed jointly (r = 0.33) and for SCC \xe2\x89\xa5 600.000 cells/mL (r = 0.25). The changes in milk composition, mainly in fat content, largely explained the variation in EC (R2= 0.69). For the same EC threshold, the specificity and sensitivity varied depending on the parity or the milking, with the negative predictive value obtained being higher than the positive predictive value at all times. We concluded that developing methods of detecting mastitis in sheep by milk EC readings would require consideration of noninfectious factors that also affect the gauging of EC. One option to consider would be individualized daily monitoring of the glands, as demonstrated in other species such as cattle and goat. labels: #Minerals'
b'Several previous studies have shown the benefits of deep sea water (DSW) in lipid metabolism. However, the effects of DSW on cellular cholesterol accumulation and synthesis induced by high glucose or free fatty acid plus high glucose [4.5g/L] (FFA/glucose) have not been fully elucidated to date. Herein, we showed the effects of mineral-balanced DSW [magnesium (Mg):calcium (Ca)=3:1](MB-DSW) on cholesterol metabolism induced by high glucose or FFA/glucose in HepG2 hepatic cells. Moreover, the effects of high ratio Mg DSW [Mg:Ca=40:1] (Mg40) were also investigated. MB-DSW and Mg40 prevented the increase of cellular total cholesterol content in high glucose- or FFA/glucose-treated HepG2 hepatic cells. Furthermore, the inhibition by MB-DSW was closely related to the down-regulation of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutatryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) expression and an increase in the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation, leading to decreased cholesterol synthesis in both high glucose- and FFA/glucose-treated conditions. However, this effect was not seen in case of Mg40. In addition, both MB-DSW and Mg40 induced the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) and diminished the proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) transcriptions in high glucose-treated HepG2 hepatic cells. This result demonstrates that the hypocholesterolemic effects of MB-DSW and Mg40 are mediated with LDL-c clearance through increases of LDLR and its transcription factors, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-\xce\xb1 (PPAR-\xce\xb1), sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-1a, and SREBP-2, mRNA synthesis and suppression of PCSK9 transcription. Moreover, apolipoprotein (Apo) A1 transcription was enhanced by MB-DSW and Mg40 without decreasing the expression of Apo B in high glucose-treated HepG2 hepatic cells. However, ApoA1 protein expression was not changed. Taken together, the present investigation suggests that DSW may prevent the high glucose- or FFA/glucose-induced increase of cellular cholesterol levels by inducing LDLR and ApoA1 transcriptions and inhibiting PCSK9 mRNA expression in HepG2 hepatic cells. Additionally, the ratio of Mg in DSW is an important factor that determines whether HMGCR expression and/or AMPK phosphorylation participate in the hypocholesterolemic effects of DSW. labels: #Minerals'
b'The research investigated three iron carbonate (siderite) sedimentary concretions from Nagykov\xc3\xa1csi, \xc3\x9ari and D\xc3\xa9legyh\xc3\xa1za, Hungary. To identify possible source rocks and effects of the glaze-like exposed surface of the concretions, we carried on comparative petrological, mineralogical, geochemical and isotopic studies. The samples were microbially mediated siderite concretions with embedded metamorphous and igneous mineral clasts, and had specific rim belts characterized by semi-concentric outer Fe-oxide layers, fluffy pyrite-rich outer belts and siderite inner parts. We investigated the cross section of the Fe-carbonate concretions by independent methodologies in order to identify their rim effects. Their surficial oxide layers showed evidence of degassing of the exposed surface caused most probably by elevated temperatures. The inner rim pyrite belt in the concretions excluded the possibility of a prolonged wet surface environment. Microtextural and mineralogical features did not support desert varnish formation.10Be nuclide values of the Nagykov\xc3\xa1csi and Uri concretions were far above the level of terrestrial in-situ cosmogenic nuclides, but they were consistent with the lowest levels for meteorites. Though the data were not conclusive to confirm any kind of known origin, they are contradictary, and open possibilities for a scenario of terrestrial meteorite origin. labels: #Minerals'
b'Ammonia gas injection is a promising technique for the remediation of uranium within the vadose zone. It can be used to manipulate the pH of a system and cause co-precipitation processes that are expected to remove uranium from the aqueous phase and decrease leaching from the solid phase. The work presented in this paper explores the effects of ammonium and sodium hydroxide on the partitioning of uranium and dissolution of the kaolinite mineral in simplified synthetic groundwaters using equilibrium batch sorption and sequential extraction experiments. It shows that there is a significant increase in uranium removal in systems with divalent cations present in the aqueous phase but not in sodium chloride synthetic groundwaters. Further, the initial conditions of the aqueous phase do not affect the dissolution of kaolinite. However, the type of base treatment does have an effect on mineral dissolution. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study focusses on chemical and mineralogical characterization of fly ash and leached filter cake and on the determination of parameters influencing metal mobilization by leaching. Three different leaching processes of fly ash from municipal solid waste incineration (MSWI) plants in Switzerland comprise neutral, acidic and optimized acidic (+ oxidizing agent) fly ash leaching have been investigated. Fly ash is characterized by refractory particles (Al-foil, unburnt carbon, quartz, feldspar) and newly formed high-temperature phases (glass, gehlenite, wollastonite) surrounded by characteristic dust rims. Metals are carried along with the flue gas (Fe-oxides, brass) and are enriched in mineral aggregates (quartz, feldspar, wollastonite, glass) or vaporized and condensed as chlorides or sulphates. Parameters controlling the mobilization of neutral and acidic fly ash leaching are pH and redox conditions, liquid to solid ratio, extraction time and temperature. Almost no depletion for Zn, Pb, Cu and Cd is achieved by performing neutral leaching. Acidic fly ash leaching results in depletion factors of 40% for Zn, 53% for Cd, 8% for Pb and 6% for Cu. The extraction of Pb and Cu are mainly limited due to a cementation process and the formation of a PbCu0-alloy-phase and to a minor degree due to secondary precipitation (PbCl2). The addition of hydrogen peroxide during acidic fly ash leaching (optimized acidic leaching) prevents this reduction through oxidation of metallic components and thus significantly higher depletion factors for Pb (57%), Cu (30%) and Cd (92%) are achieved. The elevated metal depletion using acidic leaching in combination with hydrogen peroxide justifies the extra effort not only by reduced metal loads to the environment but also by reduced deposition costs. labels: #Minerals'
b'Bacteria play important roles in rock weathering, elemental cycling, and soil formation. However, little is known about the weathering potential and population of bacteria inhabiting surfaces of rocks. In this study, we isolated bacteria from the top, middle, and bottom rock samples along a hillside of a rock (trachyte) mountain as well as adjacent soils and characterized rock-weathering behaviors and populations of the bacteria. Per gram of rock or surface soil, 106-107colony forming units were obtained and total 192 bacteria were isolated. Laboratory rock dissolution experiments indicated that the proportions of the highly effective Fe (ranging from 67 to 92\xc2\xa0%), Al (ranging from 40 to 48\xc2\xa0%), and Cu (ranging from 54 to 81\xc2\xa0%) solubilizers were significantly higher in the top rock and soil samples, while the proportion of the highly effective Si (56\xc2\xa0%) solubilizers was significantly higher in the middle rock samples. Furthermore, 78, 96, and 6\xc2\xa0% of bacteria from the top rocks, soils, and middle rocks, respectively, significantly acidified the culture medium (pH\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa04.0) in the rock dissolution process. Most rock-weathering bacteria (79\xc2\xa0%) from the rocks were different to those from the soils and most of them (species level) have not been previously reported. Furthermore, location-specific rock-weathering bacterial populations were found and Bacillus species were the most (66\xc2\xa0%) frequently isolated rock-weathering bacteria in the rocks based on cultivation methods. Notably, the top rocks and soils had the highest and lowest diversity of rock-weathering bacterial populations, respectively. The results suggested location-related differences in element (Si, Al, Fe, and Cu) releasing effectiveness and communities of rock-weathering bacteria along the hillside of the rock mountain. labels: #Minerals'
b'Vitamin D is indispensable for the maintenance of bone and mineral health. Inadequate vitamin D action increases the risk for various musculoskeletal/mineral events including fracture, fall, secondary hyperparathyroidism, diminished response to antiresorptives, rickets/osteomalacia, and hypocalcemia. Its most common cause in recent years is vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency, clinically defined by low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] level. Guidelines for vitamin D insufficiency/deficiency defined by serum 25(OH)D concentrations have been published allover the world. In Japan, however, the information on the associations between serum 25(OH)D and bone and mineral disorders has not been widely shared among healthcare providers, partly because its measurement had not been reimbursed with national medical insurance policy until August 2016. We have set out to collect and analyze Japanese data on the relationship between serum 25(OH)D concentration and bone and mineral events. Integrating these domestic data and published guidelines worldwide, here we present the following assessment criteria for vitamin D sufficiency/insufficiency/deficiency using serum 25(OH)D level in Japan. 1) Serum 25(OH)D level equal to or above 30 ng/mL is considered to be vitamin D sufficient. 2) Serum 25(OH)D level less than 30 ng/mL but not less than 20 ng/mL is considered to be vitamin D insufficient. 3) Serum 25(OH)D level less than 20 ng/mL is considered to be vitamin D deficient. We believe that these criteria will be clinically helpful in the assessment of serum 25(OH)D concentrations and further expect that they will form a basis for the future development of guidelines for the management of vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency. labels: #Minerals'
b'Inorganic minerals are important compositions in biochars, but their roles in biochar functions are investigated limitedly, which restricted our understanding on biochar applications. This study applied different biomasses to produce biochars. Their properties as well as sorption to bisphenol A (BPA) were studied, with a major focus on the role of inorganic compositions. Oxalates, carbonates, as well as KCl crystals were observed in the produced biochars depending on the feedstocks and temperatures. Oxalates and KCl formed at relatively low temperature (200-300\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C), while carbonates generally formed at pyrolysis temperature above 400\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C. The separated insoluble crystal particles and the dissolved salts have limited contribution to the apparent BPA sorption, but ash content removal altered BPA sorption. The potential impact of inorganic composition to BPA sorption should be resulted from biochar properties. Based on biochar characterization and sorption comparison before and after ash removal, we proposed that the formation of inorganic mineral compositions in biochar particles may have blocked the inner pores, which limited the significance of these sorption sites. As a result, the interactions of BPA and biochars were mostly determined by biochar surface functional groups. The acid treatment removed most of the inorganic compositions, and exposed more sorption sites, which consequently increased BPA sorption. Biochar sorption capacity may be further increased if the accessibility of the inner pores could be enhanced. labels: #Minerals'
b"Cd contamination of rice in recent years has aroused a nationwide concern on the potential health risk to people in China. A significant increase of soil acidification in major Chinese croplands improves available Cd content by crops, and this further pushes a heavier burden on controlling Cd contamination. Therefore, it is urgent to find a workable and green way to control Cd contamination, i.e., decrease Cd content in rice, for people's health in China, as other countries in the world. From chemical and economic points, stabilizing/solidifying Cd may be a feasible way except in-situ ways such as removing it by the absorption of special plants and ex-situ ones such as removing the contaminated soil and treating it by special equipment. Then, it is very important how to choose a green solidifying agent. By simulating a rock-weathering process, a nano-submicron mineral-based soil conditioner (NSC) was prepared through environmentally friendly hydrothermal reaction. The application of NSC not only decreased Cd content in rice, i.e., inhibited Cd absorption, and increased pH of the soil, but also improved the content of healthy nutrients such as organic matter, available Ca, available K, available P, and available Si in the soil. The mechanism why NSC showed such good performance was also discussed in this study. labels: #Minerals"
b'The surface reactivity of clay minerals remains challenging to characterize because of a duality of adsorption surfaces and mechanisms that does not exist in the case of simple oxide surfaces: edge surfaces of clay minerals have a variable proton surface charge arising from hydroxyl functional groups, whereas basal surfaces have a permanent negative charge arising from isomorphic substitutions. Hence, the relationship between surface charge and surface potential on edge surfaces cannot be described using the Gouy-Chapman relation, because of a spillover of negative electrostatic potential from the basal surface onto the edge surface. While surface complexation models can be modified to account for these features, a predictive fit of experimental data was not possible until recently, because of uncertainty regarding the densities and intrinsic pKavalues of edge functional groups. Here, we reexamine this problem in light of new knowledge on intrinsic pKavalues obtained over the past decade using ab initio molecular dynamics simulations, and we propose a new formalism to describe edge functional groups. Our simulation results yield reasonable predictions of the best available experimental acid-base titration data. labels: #Minerals'
b'A mine soil heavily polluted with zinc and cadmium was employed to evaluate the capacity of organic amendments of different origin to simultaneously reduce soil trace element mobility and enhance soil microbial functionality. With this aim, four organic products, namely olive processing solid waste (OPSW), municipal solid waste compost (MSWC), leonardite and peat, were applied individually at different doses (0, 1, 2 and 5%) to mine soil under controlled laboratory conditions. Extraction studies and analysis of soil microbiological parameters (basal soil respiration and dehydrogenase, \xce\xb2-glucosidase, urease, arylsulfatase and acid and alkaline phosphatase activities) were performed to assess the effect of such amendments on soil restoration. Their ability to decrease mine soil mobile trace element contents followed the sequence MSWC\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0OPSW\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0peat\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0leonardite, with the former achieving reduction levels of 78 and 73% for Zn and Cd, respectively, when applied at a dose of 5%. This amendment also showed a good performance to restore soil microbial functionality. Thus, basal soil respiration and dehydrogenase, urease and alkaline phosphatase activities experienced increases of 187, 79, 42 and 26%, respectively, when mine soil was treated with 5% MSWC. Among tested organic products, MSWC proved to be the best amendment to perform both the chemical and the microbial soil remediation. labels: #Minerals'
b'The Fe (oxyhydr)oxide rind, or Fe plaque, that forms on aquatic plant roots is an important sorbent of metal(loid)s and plays a role in the attenuation of metal(loid) uptake into higher plants. However, the mineral composition of Fe plaque and thus its potential to sorb metal(loid)s is affected by solution chemistry. The predominant strategy to characterize Fe plaque using dithionite-citrate-bicarbonate (DCB) extraction and elemental analysis reveals total Fe quantity but misses the mineral structure of the Fe (oxyhydr)oxide. Here, we developed a new technique using gentle sonication to sample intact Fe plaque from the root system and concentrate it for subsequent mineralogical characterization using synchrotron-based X-ray diffraction and X-ray absorption spectroscopy. We then coupled that data with conventional DCB extraction. The sample preparation method was effective at concentrating As-bound Fe plaque minerals in a uniform coating onto membranes that could easily be analyzed with X-ray techniques. Using these methods, we show that the percentage of poorly ordered Fe minerals in Fe plaque increases with increasing pore-water Si in flooded rice paddy soils. These findings have implications for understanding mineral controls on As cycling in the soil-rice nexus, and the sampling approach can be adopted for other aquatic plant systems. labels: #Minerals'
b'Chilling stress is one of the major abiotic stresses affecting chickpea productivity worldwide. This study evaluated the potential role of seed priming in improving resistance to chilling stress in chickpea (cv. Punjab, 2008). The priming treatments involved soaking seeds of chickpea cultivar Punjab 2008 in either water for 8\xc2\xa0h (on-farm priming), aerated water (hydropriming) for 18\xc2\xa0h, or CaCl2solution (\xcf\x88s\xc2\xa0-1.25\xc2\xa0MPa; osmopriming) for 18\xc2\xa0h. Primed and untreated seeds were grown either at 18/15\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C (control) or 13/10\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C (chilling stress). Chilling stress suppressed the growth of chickpea while seed priming mitigated the adverse effects of chilling stress by improving stand establishment, growth, water relations, photosynthesis, \xce\xb1-amylase activity, sugar metabolism, antioxidant enzyme activity, membrane stability, and leaf accumulation of proline, nitrogen, potassium and soluble phenolics. Seed priming also improved the performance of chickpea under optimal (control) conditions. The overall order of improvement in resistance to chilling by using seed priming was osmopriming\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0hydropriming\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0on-farm priming. Osmopriming improved seedling dry weight, specific leaf area, leaf CO2net assimilation rate, maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII, \xce\xb1-amylase activity, trehalose content and leaf relative water content by 10, 22, 17, 20, 73, 48 and 7%, respectively, relative to the non-primed control under chilling stress. Under optimal temperature conditions, the corresponding values were 30, 32, 16, 10, 83, 75 and 5%, respectively. Sugar metabolism, especially trehalose content, was strongly linked with stand establishment, photosynthesis, antioxidant potential (under chilling stress) and plant biomass. Overall, seed priming improved chickpea performance under both optimal temperature conditions and chilling stress through better germination metabolism and the accumulation of trehalose, which protected from oxidative damage and helped to maintain carbon assimilation and seedling growth. labels: #Minerals'
b'For ideal implant rehabilitation, an adequate bone volume, optical implant position, and stable and healthy soft tissue are required. The reduction of alveolar bone and changes in its morphology subsequent to tooth extraction will result in insufficient amount of bone and adversely affect the ability to optimally place dental implants in edentulous sites. Preservation of alveolar bone volume through ridge preservation has been demonstrated to reduce the vertical and horizontal contraction of the alveolar bone crest after tooth extraction and reduce the need for additional bone augmentation procedures during implant placement. In this case, a patient presented with a mandible molar of severe periodontal disease, the tooth was removed as atraumatically as possible and the graft material of Bio-Oss was loosely placed in the alveolar socket without condensation and covered with Bio-Gide to reconstruct the defects of the alveolar ridge. Six months later, there were sufficient height and width of the alveolar ridge for the dental implant, avoiding the need of additional bone augmentation and reducing the complexity and unpredictability of the implant surgery. Soft tissue defects, such as gingival and connective tissue, played crucial roles in long-term implant success. Peri-implant plastic surgery facilitated development of healthy peri-implant structure able to withstand occlusal forces and mucogingival stress. Six months after the implant surgery, the keratinized gingiva was absent in the buccal of the implant and the vestibular groove was a little shallow. The free gingival graft technique was used to solve the vestibulum oris groove supersulcus and the absence of keratinized gingiva around the implant. The deepening of vestibular groove and broadening of keratinized gingiva were conducive to the long-term health and stability of the tissue surrounding the implant. Implant installation and prosthetic restoration showed favorable outcome after six months. labels: #Minerals'
b'Laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) was investigated to estimate the viability as a simple and rapid method for analysis of nutrient elements in seed kernels of cucurbits. LIBS spectra were recorded in the range of 200-975nm by using Q-switched Nd:YAG laser at 532nm (4ns, 10Hz) attached to echelle spectrometer with intensified charged coupled device (ICCD). The spectral analysis revealed the presence of several elements like C, O, N, Mg, Ca, Na and K in seeds. The quantification of elements (Mg, Ca, Na and K) through LIBS was done using calibration curve method in which all calibration curve shows good linearity (r>0.95). The result obtained through LIBS was in reasonable agreement with that obtained through atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was also applied to the LIBS data for rapid categorization of seed samples belonging to same species although samples have similar nutrient elements. labels: #Minerals'
b'A study on the proximate composition, minerals, vitamins, carotenoids, amino acids, fatty acids profiles and some physicochemical properties of freeze dried Gracilaria changii was conducted. It was discovered that this seaweed was high in dietary fibre (64.74\xc2\xb10.82%), low in fat (0.30\xc2\xb10.02%) and Na/K ratio (0.12\xc2\xb10.02). The total amino acid content was 91.90\xc2\xb17.70% mainly essential amino acids (55.87\xc2\xb12.15mgg-1) which were comparable to FAO/WHO requirements. The fatty acid profiles were dominated by the polyunsaturated fatty acids particularly docosahexaenoic (48.36\xc2\xb16.76%) which led to low \xcf\x896/\xcf\x893, atherogenic, and thrombogenic index. The physicochemical properties of this seaweed namely the water holding and the swelling capacity were comparable to some commercial fibre rich products. This study suggested that G. changii could be potentially used as ingredients to improve nutritive value and texture of functional foods for human consumption. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of this study was to determine the effect of boiling and roasting on the proximate, lipid oxidation, fatty acid profile and mineral content of two sesame seeds varieties. The proximate composition was significantly affected (P<0.05) during treatments. The minerals of seeds roasting at 120\xc2\xb0C for 10min were significantly decreased. The free fatty acids content of sesame oil after processing was significantly increased (P<0.05). Iodine and peroxide value were also affected by processing. Totox and p-Anisidine values were significantly increased during processing. The fatty acids composition a little modified during processing, and roasting at 180\xc2\xb0C for 10min mostly affected the polyunsaturated fatty acids for all sesame varieties. C16:0, C18:0, C18:1 and C18:2 were quantitatively the most important fatty acids in sesame oil. Boiling appeared to be the best processing method for cooking the two sesame varieties concerning oxidative stability and fatty acid profile. labels: #Minerals'
b'On mineral, gas or oil extraction sites, medical care is often provided in uncommon conditions by doctors or paramedical staff. Caregivers must fulfil certain requirements, but must also possess the necessary human, technical, physical and psychological qualities to be able to provide high quality care throughout their mission on a remote site. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mineral elements in barley (Hordeum vulgare) play an important physiological role in global human health. In this study, quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for concentration of nine mineral elements in barley grain and grass powder were detected in a population of 193 recombinant inbred lines of the barley cross Ziguangmangluoerling x Schooner and the parents. We observed large genetic variation contributing to element concentrations in both grains and grass powder. The mean K, Ca, and Fe concentrations in grass powder were 6.67, 12.00, and 4.58 times that of regenerating barley grains. In grains, 17 QTLs that accounted for 6.36-64.08% of the phenotypic variation in Zn, Mg, Ca, K, Na, Mn, Fe, and P concentrations were identified. In grass powder, seven QTLs were identified; these accounted for 6.03-21.86% of the variation in Ca, Zn, Mg, K, Fe, and Cu concentrations. These QTLs affecting elements in grain and grass powder are so far unreported in barley. To our knowledge, QTLs with pleiotropic effects for three elements were also identified for the first time in barley. The qK1/qMg1/qCa1 region between markers Bmag0211 and GBMS0014 on chromosome 1H was shown to have large additive effects for Mg, Ca, and K concentrations in grains. These additive effects indicated that the high element (Mg, Ca, Zn, Mn, and K) alleles were contributed by Ziguangmangluoerling. These results will further our understanding of the genetic basis of mineral elements and help us develop markers linked with mineral elements for marker-assisted selection breeding in barley. labels: #Minerals'
b'Catalytic upgrading of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), an important biobased platform chemical for high-value products, is currently of great interest. In this work, a new highly HMFtolerant yeast strain-Meyerozyma guilliermondii SC1103 was isolated, and biocatalytic reduction of HMF to 2,5-bis(hydroxymethyl)furan (BHMF) using its resting cells was reported. Cosubstrates exerted a significant effect on the catalytic activity and selectivity of microbial cells as well as their HMF-tolerant levels whereas the nitrogen source and mineral salts had no effects. In addition, M.\xe2\x80\x85guilliermondii SC1103 cells exhibited good catalytic performances within the range of pH\xe2\x80\x854.0-10.0. The yeast was highly tolerant to both HMF (up to 110\xe2\x80\x85mm) and BHMF (up to 200\xe2\x80\x85mm). In addition, 100\xe2\x80\x85mm HMF could be selectively reduced to BHMF within 12\xe2\x80\x85h by its resting cells in the presence of 100\xe2\x80\x85mm glucose (as cosubstrate), with a yield of 86\xe2\x80\x89% and selectivity of>99\xe2\x80\x89%. The production of 191\xe2\x80\x85mm of BHMF was realized within 24.5\xe2\x80\x85h by using a fed-batch strategy, with a productivity of approximately 24\xe2\x80\x85g\xe2\x80\x89L-1per day. In addition, this new biocatalytic approach was applied for the reduction of furfural and 5-methylfurfural, affording the corresponding furfuryl alcohols with yields of 83 and 89\xe2\x80\x89%, respectively. labels: #Minerals'
b'Biochemical values and mineral concentrations in blood plasma were investigated to evaluate the statuses of health and mineral nutrition among yaks in Mustang District, Nepal. In total, 118 plasma samples of female yaks collected in April and September/October of 2013-2015 were offered. Seventy-four percent of yaks showed lower plasma total-cholesterol concentrations than the lowest limit of reference range (100\xc2\xa0mg/dL) and the values in spring (83.41\xc2\xa0mg/dL) were lower (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05) than those in autumn (95.05\xc2\xa0mg/dL). All the yaks had lower plasma albumin concentrations than the lowest limit of reference range (3.0\xc2\xa0g/dL) and 66% of yaks showed lower plasma inorganic phosphorus concentrations than the critical level of phosphorus deficiency (4.5\xc2\xa0mg/dL). Thirty-five percent of yaks showed lower plasma calcium concentrations than the lowest limit of normal range (8\xc2\xa0mg/dL) and the concentrations were lower in spring than in autumn (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01). Seventy-five percent of yaks presented lower copper concentrations than the critical level (0.65\xc2\xa0mg/L) and the concentrations were lower in spring than in autumn (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01). Since the low plasma total-cholesterol might have indicated shortage of dry matter and energy intake, attention should be paid to the nutritional statuses of energy, phosphorus, calcium and copper in winter and early spring. labels: #Minerals'
b'Sorption mechanisms of an antibiotic sulfamethazine (SMT) to humin (HM) isolated from a peat soil and its subfractions after sequential treatments were examined. The treatments of HM included removal of ash, O-alkyl carbon, lipid, and lignin components. The HF/HCl de-ashing treatment removed a large amount of minerals (mainly silicates), releasing a fraction of hydrophobic carbon sorption domains that previously were blocked, increasing the sorption of SMT by 33.3%. The de-O-alkyl carbon treatment through acid hydrolysis greatly reduced polarity of HM samples, thus weakening the interaction between sorbents with water at the interfaces via H-bonding, leaving more effective sorption sites. Sorption of SMT via mechanisms such as van der Waals forces and \xcf\x80-\xcf\x80 interactions was enhanced by factors of 2.04-2.50. After removing the lipid/lignin component with the improved Soxhlet extraction/acid hydrolysis, the organic carbon content-normalized sorption enhancement index Eocwas calculated. The results demonstrated that the Eoc-lipidfor SMT (16.9%) was higher than Eoc-lignin(10.1%), implying that removal of unit organic carbon mass of lipid led to a higher increase in sorption strength than that of lignin. As each component was progressively removed from HM, the sorption strength and isotherm nonlinearity of the residual HM samples for SMT were gradually enhanced. The Kocvalues of SMT by HM samples were positively correlated with their aromatic carbon contents, implying that \xcf\x80-\xcf\x80 electron donor-acceptor interactions between the benzene ring of sorbate and the aromatic domains in HM played a significant role in their interactions. labels: #Minerals'
b'Fermentative iron-reducing organisms have been identified in a variety of environments. Instead of coupling iron reduction to respiration, they have been consistently observed to use ferric iron minerals as an electron sink for fermentation. In the present study, a fermentative iron reducer, Orenia metallireducens strain Z6, was shown to use iron reduction to enhance fermentation not only by consuming electron equivalents, but also by generating alkalinity that effectively buffers the pH. Fermentation of glucose by this organism in the presence of a ferric oxide mineral, hematite (Fe2O3), resulted in enhanced glucose decomposition compared with fermentation in the absence of an iron source. Parallel evidence (i.e., genomic reconstruction, metabolomics, thermodynamic analyses, and calculation of electron transfer) suggested hematite reduction as a proton-consuming reaction effectively consumed acid produced by fermentation. The buffering effect of hematite was further supported by a greater extent of glucose utilization by strain Z6 in media with increasing buffer capacity. Such maintenance of a stable pH through hematite reduction for enhanced glucose fermentation complements the thermodynamic interpretation of interactions between microbial iron reduction and other biogeochemical processes. This newly discovered feature of iron reducer metabolism also has significant implications for groundwater management and contaminant remediation by providing microbially mediated buffering systems for the associated microbial and/or chemical reactions. labels: #Minerals'
b'Common beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) are the most important legume crops. They represent a major source of micronutrients and a target for essential trace mineral enhancement (i.e. biofortification). To investigate mineral accumulation during seed maturation and to examine whether it is possible to biofortify seeds with multi-micronutrients without affecting mineral bioavailability, three common bean cultivars were treated independently with zinc (Zn) and selenium (Se), the two critical micronutrients that can be effectively enhanced via fertilization. The seed mineral concentrations during seed maturation and the seed Fe bioavailability were analyzed. Common bean seeds were found to respond positively to Zn and Se treatments in accumulating these micronutrients. While the seed pods showed a decrease in Zn and Se along with Fe content during pod development, the seeds maintained relatively constant mineral concentrations during seed maturation. Selenium treatment had minimal effect on the seed accumulation of phytic acid and polyphenols, the compounds affecting Fe bioavailability. Zinc treatment reduced phytic acid level, but did not dramatically affect the concentrations of total polyphenols. Iron bioavailability was found not to be greatly affected in seeds biofortified with Se and Zn. In contrast, the inhibitory polyphenol compounds in the black bean profoundly reduced Fe bioavailability. These results provide valuable information for Se and Zn enhancement in common bean seeds and suggest the possibility to biofortify with these essential nutrients without greatly affecting mineral bioavailability to increase the food quality of common bean seeds. labels: #Minerals'
b'Acellular extrinsic fiber cementum is a mineralized tissue that covers the cervical half of the tooth root surface. It contains mainly extrinsic or Sharpey\'s fibers that run perpendicular to the root surface to anchor the tooth via the periodontal ligament. Acellular cementum is continuously and slowly produced throughout life and exhibits an alternating bright and dark pattern under light microscopy. However, although a better understanding of the structural background of acellular cementum is relevant to many fields, such as cementochronology, periodontology and tissue engineering, acellular cementum remains rarely studied and poorly understood. In this work, we studied the acellular cementum at the incremental line scale of five human mandibular canines using polarized Raman spectroscopy. We provided Raman imaging analysis and polarized acquisitions as a function of the angular orientation of the sample. The results showed that mineral crystals were always parallel to collagen fibrils, and at a larger scale, we proposed an organizational model in which we found radial collagen fibers, "orthogonal" to the cementum surface, and "non-orthogonal" fibers, which consist of branching and bending radial fibers. Concerning the alternating pattern, we observed that the dark lines corresponded to smaller, more mineralized and probably more organized bands, which is consistent with the zoological assumption that incremental lines are produced during a winter rest period of acellular cementum growth. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of the present study was to identify transcriptional modifications and regulatory networks accounting for physiological and metabolic responses to specific nutrients in the liver of young Belgian Blue \xc3\x97 Holstein bulls using RNA-sequencing. A larger trial has been carried out in which animals were fed with different diets: 1] a conventional diet; 2]a low-protein/low-mineral diet (low-impact diet) and 3] a diet enriched in n-3 fatty acids (FAs), conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) and vitamin E (nutraceutical diet). The initial hypothesis was that the administration of low-impact and nutraceutical diets might influence the transcriptional profiles in bovine liver and the resultant nutrient fluxes, which are essential for optimal liver function and nutrient interconversion. Results showed that the nutraceutical diet significantly reduced subcutaneous fat covering in vivo and liver pH. Dietary treatments did not affect overall liver fat content, but significantly modified the liver profile of 33 FA traits (out of the total 89 identified by gas-chromatography). In bulls fed nutraceutical diet, the percentage of n-3 and CLA FAs increased around 2.5-fold compared with the other diets, whereas the ratio of n6/n3 decreased 2.5-fold. Liver transcriptomic analyses revealed a total of 198 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) when comparing low-impact, nutraceutical and conventional diets, with the nutraceutical diet showing the greatest effects on liver transcriptome. Functional analyses using ClueGo and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis evidenced that DEGs in bovine liver were variously involved in energy reserve metabolic process, glutathione metabolism, and carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. Modifications in feeding strategies affected key transcription factors regulating the expression of several genes involved in fatty acid metabolism, e.g. insulin-induced gene 1, insulin receptor substrate 2, and RAR-related orphan receptor C. This study provides noteworthy insights into the molecular changes occurring as a result of nutrient variation in diets (aimed at reducing the environmental impact and improving human health) and broadens our understanding of the relationship between nutrients variation and phenotypic effects. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mineral salt bricks are often used in cow raising as compensation for mineral losses to improve milk yield, growth, and metabolic activity. Generally, effects of minerals are partially thought to result from improvement of microbial metabolism, but their influence on the rumen microbiota has rarely been documented to date. In this study, we investigated the response of microbiota to mineral salt in heifer and adult cows and evaluated ruminal fermentation and enteric methane emissions of cows fed mineral salts. Twelve lactating Holstein cows and twelve heifers fed a total mixed ration (TMR) diet were randomly allocated into two groups, respectively: a treatment group comprising half of the adults and heifers that were fed mineral salt and a control group containing the other half fed a diet with no mineral salt supplement. Enteric methane emissions were reduced by 9.6% (P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) in adults ingesting a mineral salt diet, while concentrations of ruminal ammonia, butyrate, and propionate were increased to a significant extent (P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05). Enteric methane emissions were also reduced in heifers ingesting a mineral salt diet, but not to a significant extent (P\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x890.05). Moreover, the concentrations of ammonia and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) were not significantly altered in heifers (P\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x890.05). Based on these results, we performed high-throughput sequencing to explore the bacterial and archaeal communities of the rumen samples. Succiniclasticum and Prevotella, two propionate-producing bacteria, were predominant in samples of both adults and heifers. At the phylotype level, mineral salt intake led to a significant shift from Succiniclasticum to Prevotella and Prevotellaceae populations in adults. In contrast, reduced abundance of Succiniclasticum and Prevotella phylotypes was observed, with no marked shift in propionate-producing bacteria in heifers. Methanogenic archaea were not significantly abundant between groups, either in adult cows or heifers. The shift of Succiniclasticum to Prevotella and Prevotellaceae in adults suggests a response of microbiota to mineral salt that contributes to higher propionate production, which competes for hydrogen utilized by methanogens. Our data collectively indicate that a mineral salt diet can alter interactions of bacterial taxa that result in enteric methane reduction, and this effect is also influenced in an age-dependent manner. labels: #Minerals'
b'We evaluated the effects of mineral salt supplement on enteric methane emissions, ruminal fermentation and methanogen community of dairy cows over a whole lactation period. Ten Holstein cows fed a total mixed ration (TMR) diet were randomly allocated into two groups, one supplied with mineral salts as the treatment group and the other as the control group. The methane measurement showed that the ingestion of mineral salts lowered enteric methane emissions significantly (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05), with an average of 10.5% reduction over the whole lactation period. Ruminal fermentation analysis showed the mineral salt intake could significantly decrease the acetate\xc2\xa0:\xc2\xa0propionate ratio (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05). Real-time PCR assay showed that rumen methanogen abundance significantly reduced in the treatment group (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05) but was not significantly influenced by mineral salt intake over the whole lactation period. Intergroup methanogen community composition was influenced slightly by mineral salt intake; however, significantly different intragroup profiles were apparent throughout the whole lactation period, according to denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis. In conclusion, these results suggested that the effective mitigation of enteric methane emissions by mineral salt intake could be attributed to decreased density of methanogenic archaea and that fluctuations in methane emission over the lactation period might be related to Methanobrevibacter diversity. labels: #Minerals'
b'The underutilized Kenyan variety of Dolichos lablab bean seeds serves as a good source of nutrients. This study was undertaken for the first time to address the limited knowledge regarding the bioactive, biochemical, physicochemical, and functional properties of Dolichos lablab beans. Proximate analysis, mineral, total and free amino acid profiles, total protein, total dietary and profile of fiber, carotenoids and fat soluble vitamins, total phenolics, and total flavonoids were evaluated. The results clearly show that Dolichos lablab beans contain many health-promoting components, such as fiber, proteins, minerals, and numerous phytochemicals endowed with useful biological activities, that allow it to contribute in a relevant way to the daily intake of these nutrients. labels: #Minerals'
b'Historic arsenic contamination of soils occurs throughout the world from mining, industrial and agricultural activities. In Australia, the control of cattle ticks using arsenicals from the late 19th to mid 20th century has led to some 1600 contaminated sites in northern New South Wales. The effect of aging in As-mobility in two dip-site soil types, ferralitic and sandy soils, are investigated utilizing isotopic exchange techniques, and synchrotron X-ray adsorption spectroscopy (XAS). Findings show that historic soil arsenic is highly bound to the soils with>90% irreversibly bound. However, freshly added As (either added to historically loaded soils or pristine soils) has a significantly higher degree of As-accessibility. XAS data indicates that historic soil arsenic is dominated as Ca- (svenekite,&weilite), Al-(mansfieldite), and Fe- (scorodite) like mineral precipitates, whereas freshly added As is dominated by mineral adsorption surfaces, particularly the iron oxy-hydroxides (goethite and hematite), but also gibbsite and kaolin surfaces. SEM data further confirmed the presence of scorodite and mansfieldite formation in the historic contaminated soils. These data suggest that aging of historic soil-As has allowed neoformational mineral recrystallisation from surface sorption processes, which greatly reduces As-mobility and accessibility. labels: #Minerals'
b'Infiltration of heavy metal (HM) polluted wastewater can seriously compromise soil and groundwater quality. Interactions between mineral soil components (e.g. clay minerals) and dissolved organic matter (DOM) play a crucial role in determining HM mobility in soils. In this study, the influence of the timing of addition of DOM, i.e. concurrent with or prior to HMs, on HM mobility was explored in a set of continuous flow column experiments using well defined natural soil samples amended with goethite, birnessite and/or smectite. The soils were subjected to concurrent and sequential additions of solutions of DOM, and Cu, Ni and Zn. The resulting breakthrough curves were fitted with a modified dose-response model to obtain the adsorption capacity (q0). Addition of DOM prior to HMs moderately enhanced q0of Cu (8-25%) compared to a control without DOM, except for the goethite amended soil that exhibited a 10% reduction due to the blocking of binding sites. Meanwhile, for both Zn and Ni sequential addition of DOM reduced q0by 1-36% for all tested soils due to preferential binding of Zn and Ni to mineral phases. In contrast, concurrent addition of DOM and HMs resulted in a strong increase of q0for all tested metals and all tested soil compositions compared to the control: 141-299% for Cu, 29-102% for Zn and 32-144% for Ni. Our study shows that when assessing the impact of soil pollution through HM containing wastewater it is crucial to take into account the presence of DOM. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of the present study was to assess whether dietary magnesium deficiency can alter distribution of macroelements and trace elements in different organs and tissues. Experiments were carried out on 12 adult female Wistar rats, which were fed either a diet with low Mg content (\xe2\x89\xa420mgkg-1of diet) (LMgD) or a diet with daily recommended Mg content (\xe2\x89\x88500mgkg-1) as control group (CG) for 70 days. On the 70th day of the experiment heart, aorta, femoral skeletal muscle, forebrain, cerebellum, pituitary gland, thyroid gland, ovaries, uterus, liver, kidneys, and spleen were taken for analysis of mineral content. Concentrations of Fe and Ca were measured by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry, and levels of Na, K, Mg, Co, Cu, Zn, Ni, Se, I were determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. On the 70th day, LMgD led to significant reduction of Mg level in red blood cells, plasma, aorta, uterus and thyroid gland compared to CG as well as resulted in significant decrease of Mg/Ca ratio in kidneys, spleen and ovaries. Contrary to this, an increase of Mg/Ca ratio was found in cerebellum of LMgD group. Significant decrease of K concentration was shown in aorta of LMgD animals compared to CG whereas myocardial K concentration was increased in LMgD group. Na level was two-fold higher in skeletal muscles of rats that received LMgD in comparison to CG (p=0.006). Increased concentrations of Fe in ovaries and uterus were found in LMgD. Mg restriction did not affect Zn concentration in any of tasted tissues. Se level was higher in spleen and lower in uterus of LMgD animals compared to CG. MgD was accompanied by increased level of Co in skeletal muscles and decreased its level in kidneys and uterus. LMgD feeding was associated with decreased concentrations of Ni in heart, thyroid gland, spleen, uterus and Co in heart, aorta, liver, kidneys, spleen and ovaries. The changes of Mg, K, Co content were accompanied by dramatic (10-fold) decrease of I concentration in aorta of LMgD animals. LMgD causes decrease of I content in ovaries and increase of I level in uterus vs CG. Thus, distribution of macroelements (Ca, Na, K) was weakly affected by Mg restriction that led to the most evident alterations of Co and Ni tissue levels. Moreover, mineral balance of uterus seems to be the most susceptible to low Mg intake. Hypomagnesaemia resulted in significant changes of 5 studied trace elements (Fe, Se, Cu, Ni and Co). labels: #Minerals'
b'This study determined the levels of Ca, Mg, Fe, Zn, Cu, and Na in various tissues samples (liver, brain, kidney, intestines, muscle and hair) of diabetic and non-diabetic rats by flame atomic absorption spectroscopy, in order to assess the role of element levels during T2DM. The ratios of Ca/Mg, Zn/Cu, Ca/Zn, and Mg/Zn in diabetic and non-diabetic rat tissues were also calculated. The determined element levels were further subjected to a student-t test statistical analysis and multiple-linear-regression in order to evaluate similarities, differences, and an inter-element association in tissues of diabetic and non-diabetic rats. The results of the study showed high variability in element levels and Ca/Mg Zn/Cu Mg/Zn Ca/Zn ratios in the tissues of diabetic and non-diabetic rats, but are tissue- and element-dependent, suggesting differences in the accumulation of the elements in tissues of diabetics and non-diabetics. The obtained significant differences in the levels of elements and Ca/Mg Zn/Cu Mg/Zn Ca/Zn ratios in several tissues of diabetic and non-diabetic rats in this study suggest that the investigated elements play considerable roles in the T2DM disease process. Strong inter-element associations (R2\xe2\x89\xa50.9) were observed for some elements in tissues of diabetic and non-diabetics rats. However, poor inter-elemental associations were obtained for some elements in the tissues of diabetic and non-diabetic rats. labels: #Minerals'
b'Glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity involving N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been recognized as a final common outcome in pathological conditions involving death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Overstimulation of NMDA receptors results in influx of calcium (Ca) and sodium (Na) ions and efflux of potassium (K). NMDA receptors are blocked by magnesium (Mg). Such changes due to NMDA overstimulation are also associated with not only the altered levels of minerals but also that of trace elements and redox status. Both the decreased and elevated levels of trace elements such as iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu) affect NMDA receptor excitability and redox status. Manganese (Mn), and selenium (Se) are also part of antioxidant defense mechanisms in retina. Additionally endogenous substances such as taurine also affect NMDA receptor activity and retinal redox status. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of Mg acetyltaurate (MgAT) on the retinal mineral and trace element concentration, oxidative stress, retinal morphology and retinal cell apoptosis in rats after-NMDA exposure. One group of Sprague Dawley rats received intravitreal injection of vehicle while 4 other groups similarly received NMDA (160nmolL-1). Among the NMDA injected groups, 3 groups also received MgAT (320nmolL-1) as pre-treatment, co-treatment or post-treatment. Seven days after intravitreal injection, rats were sacrificed, eyes were enucleated and retinae were isolated for estimation of mineral (Ca, Na, K, Mg) and trace element (Mn, Cu, Fe, Se, Zn) concentration using Inductively Coupled Plasma (DRC ICP-MS) techniques (NexION 300D), retinal oxidative stress using Elisa, retinal morphology using H&E staining and retinal cell apoptosis using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL). Intravitreal NMDA injection resulted in increased concentration of Ca (4.6 times, p<0.0001), Mg (1.5 times, p<0.01), Na (3 times, p<0.0001) and K (2.3 times, p<0.0001) compared to vehicle injected group. This was accompanied with significant increase of Ca/Mg and Na/K ratios, 3 and 1.27 times respectively, compared to control group. The trace elements such as Cu, Fe and Zn also showed a significant increase amounting to 3.3 (p<0.001), 2.3 (p<0.0001) and 3 (p<0.0001) times respectively compared to control group. Se was increased by 60% (p<0.005). Pre-treatment with MgAT abolished effect of NMDA on minerals and trace elements more effectively than co- and post-treatment. Similar observations were made for retinal oxidative stress, retinal morphology and retinal cell apoptosis. In conclusion, current study demonstrated the protective effect of MgAT against NMDA-induced oxidative stress and retinal cell apoptosis. This effect of MgAT was associated with restoration of retinal concentrations of minerals and trace elements. Further studies are warranted to explore the precise molecular targets of MgAT. Nevertheless, MgAT seems a potential candidate in the management of diseases involving NMDA-induced excitotoxicity. labels: #Minerals'
b"Genetic and neurobiological factors are considered to be the major causes of mood and mental disorders. However, over the past few years, increased levels of serum malondialdehyde and altered levels of various non-enzymatic antioxidants and essential minerals involved in abnormal functional activity have been identified as major contributing factors to the pathogenesis of several neurological disorders. The aim of this study was to determine the levels of the serum lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA), antioxidants (vitamin A, E and C), macro-minerals (calcium, potassium and sodium) and trace elements (zinc, iron and selenium) in patients with bipolar disorder and to explore their role in disease progression. This is a prospective case-control study that evaluated 55 patients with bipolar disorder and 55 healthy volunteers matched by age and sex. Serum MDA levels were determined by UV spectrophotometry as a marker of lipid peroxidation. RP-HPLC was employed to investigate the serum vitamin A and E concentrations, whereas UV spectrophotometry was used to quantify levels of vitamin C. Serum macro-minerals and trace elements were analyzed by atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). Statistical analysis was performed with independent sample t-tests and Pearson's correlation test. We found significantly higher concentrations of MDA (p<0.05) and significantly lower concentrations of antioxidants (vitamin A, E and C) (p<0.05) in the patient group compared with control group. Regarding trace elements and macro-minerals, lower concentrations of zinc, calcium, iron, selenium, sodium and potassium were found in the patient group compared with control subjects (p<0.05). Our study suggests that high serum MDA concentrations and low serum concentrations of antioxidants, macro-minerals and trace elements are strongly associated with bipolar disorder. labels: #Minerals"
b'AIMS: A case series to review early experiences with HemosprayTM for a variety of non-variceal upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB) at Middlemore Hospital.METHODS: HemosprayTM was administered therapeutically as first line or rescue at the discretion of the endoscopist. All cases of UGIB requiring HemosprayTM at Middlemore Hospital were identified to the investigator who undertook analysis of electronic and hard copy notes.RESULTS: Between October 2013 and July 2016, 36 patients were treated endoscopically with HemosprayTM. Source of bleeding was predominantly gastric in 17, 15 were duodenal and four oesophageal. The majority of lesions were peptic ulcer or post-intervention (78%), with others being Mallory Weiss tear (MWT), gastric mass, Dieulafoy lesion, portal hypertensive gastropathy and post-biopsy. Thirty-one were actively bleeding with mostly oozing haemorrhage (75%). Twenty-three patients were on antithrombotic therapy (ATT), two each on warfarin and low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and 19 on antiplatelet agents. HemosprayTM was administered therapeutically in all cases, as first line or rescue. Acute haemostasis was achieved in all patients; four (11%) episodes of re-bleeding occurred within seven days, with average follow-up of 16 months. There were no instances of equipment malfunction or adverse events specific to use of HemosprayTM.CONCLUSIONS: Our early experience with HemosprayTM is very promising and there is clear role for HemosprayTM as a rescue therapy when standard methods have failed to achieve haemostasis and possibly as first line in cases of diffuse bleeding not amenable to standard interventions. However, HemosprayTM is not recommended as a standalone therapy for spurting haemorrhage due to the increased frequency of re-bleeding. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the relationship between serum mineral levels and parasite load in Saanen (n=37) and Damascus (n=13) goats, which were all approximately 2 months pregnant and naturally infected with gastrointestinal nematodes.METHODS: To determine parasite concentration individually, fecal samples were taken from each goat, and the eggs per gram (EPG) of feces was detected via a modified McMaster technique. To investigate the possible effects of parasite concentration on serum mineral levels, blood was drawn from the goats and serum calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron, copper, zinc, manganese, nickel, and cadmium levels were measured via the ICP-OES technique.RESULTS: In a correlation analysis of the individual EPG values and mineral levels performed on the basis of the species, it was seen that increased egg numbers did not cause a statistically significant increase or decrease in Saanens except for cadmium (significant moderate positive correlation, p<0.05) for both species. A comparison of the mineral element levels with the lower and upper normal limits in the published literature found that manganese and iron were below the normal range, while zinc and calcium levels were close to the lower limits.CONCLUSION: It is estimated that the effect of parasite load, which continuously increases with the progression of pregnancy and deliveries, on blood mineral levels would be much more significant. labels: #Minerals'
b'The bacterial strain 2-92T, isolated from a field plot under long-term (>40\xe2\x80\x89years) mineral fertilization, exhibited in vitro antagonistic properties against fungal pathogens. A polyphasic approach was undertaken to verify its taxonomic status. Strain 2-92T was Gram-reaction-negative, aerobic, non-spore-forming, motile by one or more flagella, and oxidase-, catalase- and urease-positive. The optimal growth temperature of strain 2-92T was 30\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis demonstrated that the strain is related to species of the genus Pseudomonas. Phylogenetic analysis of six housekeeping genes (dnaA, gyrB, recA, recF, rpoB and rpoD) revealed that strain 2-92T clustered as a distinct and well separated lineage with Pseudomonassimiae as the most closely related species. Polar lipid and fatty acid compositions corroborated the taxonomic position of strain 2-92T in the genus Pseudomonas. Phenotypic characteristics from carbon utilization tests could be used to differentiate strain 2-92T from closely related species of the genus Pseudomonas. DNA-DNA hybridization values (wet laboratory and genome-based) and average nucleotide identity data confirmed that this strain represents a novel species. On the basis of phenotypic and genotypic characteristics, it is concluded that this strain represents a separate novel species for which the name Pseudomonas canadensis sp. nov. is proposed, with type strain 2-92T (=LMG 28499T=DOAB 798T). The DNA G+C content is 60.30\xe2\x80\x89mol%. labels: #Minerals'
b'An experiment was conducted to determine the effect of supplementing diets fed to growing pigs with fat sources differing in their composition of fatty acids on the apparent total tract digestibility (ATTD) of minerals. A diet based on corn, potato protein isolate, and 7% sucrose was formulated. Five additional diets that were similar to the previous diet with the exception that sucrose was replaced by 7% tallow, choice white grease, palm oil, corn oil, or soybean oil were also formulated. Diets were formulated to contain 0.70% Ca and 0.33% standardized total tract digestible P. Growing barrows ( = 60; 15.99 \xc2\xb1 1.48 kg initial BW) were allotted to a randomized complete block design with 2 blocks of 30 pigs, 6 dietary treatments, and 10 replicate pigs per treatment. Experimental diets were provided for 12 d with the initial 5 d being the adaptation period. Total feces were collected for a 5-d collection period using the marker-to-marker approach, and the ATTD of minerals, ether extract, and acid hydrolyzed ether extract was calculated for all diets. Digestibility of DM was greater (<0.05) in the diet containing soybean oil compared with the diet containing choice white grease or the basal diet, with all other diets being intermediate. The ATTD of Ca, S, and P was greater (<0.05) for pigs fed diets containing soybean oil, corn oil, palm oil, or tallow than for pigs fed the basal diet or the diet containing choice white grease. The ATTD of Mg, Zn, Mn, Na, and K were not different among dietary treatments. The ATTD of ether extract was greater (<0.05) in diets containing palm oil, corn oil, or soybean oil compared with the diet containing choice white grease, and the ATTD of acid hydrolyzed ether extract in the diet containing soybean oil was also greater (<0.05) than in the diet containing choice white grease. In conclusion, supplementation of a basal diet with tallow, palm oil, corn oil, or soybean oil may increase the ATTD of some macrominerals, but that appears not to be the case if choice white grease is used. There was no evidence of negative effects of the fat sources used in this experiment on the ATTD of any minerals. labels: #Minerals'
b'Hyperprolificacy in modern pig breeds has led to increased use of artificial rearing and formula feeding of neonatal piglets, which may change their intestinal bacterial ecophysiology. Here, newborn piglets ( = 8 per group) were fed a bovine milk-based formula (FO) or allowed to suckle their mothers (sow milk [SM]) for 2 wk, and digesta samples from the stomach, jejunum, and colon were subsequently analyzed for enzyme activities, bacterial metabolites, and 16S rRNA transcripts of bacterial groups by quantitative real-time PCR. Jejunal lactase activity was lower and lactose concentration was greater in the jejunum and colon in the FO group compared with the SM group (<0.05). In the stomach, FO-fed pigs had a lower copy number of 16S rRNA transcripts for all analyzed bacterial groups (<0.05) except for the // group. In the jejunum, 16S rRNA transcripts of lactic acid bacteria and clostridial cluster I were lower (<0.05) in FO-fed pigs. In turn, transcript abundance of the group and clostridial cluster I was greater in FO-fed pigs in the colon (<0.05). In FO-fed piglets, concentrations of and lactate and total and individual short-chain fatty acids were higher in the colon (<0.05). Multivariate redundancy analysis revealed that the concentration of minerals (ash, Ca, Mg, K, Na, Mn, and Zn) were associated with reduced bacterial abundance and activity in the upper gastrointestinal tract, whereas lactose had the most pronounced effect on the colon microbiota. The present study revealed that, apart from lactose, the mineral concentration modifies the microbial communities in the gastrointestinal tract of FO-fed piglets. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study assessed the radiological health hazards to various body organs of workers working within Transnet Precinct in Richards Bay in Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa due to radionuclide content of mineral ores often stored within the facility. Thirty samples were collected from five mineral ores (rock phosphate, rutile, zircon, coal and hematite) and analyzed for238U,234U,226Ra,210Pb,235U,232Th,228Ra,228Th and40K using delayed neutron activation analysis and low energy gamma spectroscopy. Rutile was found to be the most radioactive mineral ore within the facility with210Pb concentration of 759.00 \xc2\xb1 106.00 Bq\xc2\xb7kg-1. Effective annual dose rate in (mSv\xc2\xb7y-1) delivered to different organs of the body: testes, bone marrow, whole body, lungs and ovaries from mineral ores were such that dose from mineral ores decreased in the order coal>rutile>rock phosphate>hematite>zircon. The organs with the highest received dose rate were the testes and this received dose was from coal. However, all of the calculated absorbed dose rates to organs of the body were below the maximum permissible safety limits. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of this research is to evaluate the groundwater geochemistry in western Nile Delta area as an example of an aquifer influenced by reclamation and seawater intrusion. To conduct this study, 63 groundwater samples and one surface water sample from El Nubaria Canal were collected. To estimate the origin of dissolved ions and the geochemical processes influencing this groundwater, integration between land use change, pedological, hydrogeological, hydrogeochemical, and statistical approaches was considered. Results suggest that the groundwater flow regime changed from northeast and southwest directions around El Nubaria canal before 1966 to northern and northeastern directions due to newly constructed channel network. Soil salinity and mineral contents, seepage from irrigation canal, and seawater intrusion are the main factors controlling the groundwater chemistry. Statistically, the groundwater samples were classified into eight groups, one to four for the deep groundwater and five to eight for the shallow groundwater. The deep groundwater is characterized by two groups of chemicals (SO4-HCO3-Mg-Ca-K and Cl-Na), while the shallow groundwater groups of chemicals are Na-Cl-SO4and K-HCO3-Ca-Mg. Both shallow groundwater and deep groundwater are mostly saturated with respect to carbonate minerals and undersaturated with respect to chloride minerals. Sulfate minerals are above the saturation limit in the shallow groundwater, but in the deep samples, these minerals are under the saturation limit. Ion exchange, carbonate production, mineral precipitation, and seawater intrusion are the geochemical processes governing the groundwater chemistry in the study area. labels: #Minerals'
b'Arsenite (As(III)) is toxic in drinking water, which becomes an environmental concern worldwide. This work was to synthesize porous hematite through the calcination of natural goethite concentrate for As(III) adsorption, including adsorption kinetics, isotherms and the influence of pH and temperature. The calcination was performed at 300\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C for 180\xc2\xa0min, producing porous hematite with large amount of micropores. The maximum adsorption capacity of As(III) on porous hematite was achieved at pH 6.0 and 25\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, about 14.46\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0g-1, compared with 2.965\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0g-1on the original goethite concentrate. The improvement might be attributed to the formation of micropores and thus the increase in the surface area. Also, it was found that the adsorption was strongly pH dependent and reduced with increasing temperature. It is indicated that the low-cost porous hematite has great potential in As(III) removal from contaminated water. labels: #Minerals'
b'In seasonal dry tropical forests, plants are subjected to severe water deficit, and the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) or inorganic phosphorus supply (Pi) can mitigate the effects of water deficit. This study aimed to assess the physiological performance of Poincianella pyramidalis subjected to water deficit in combination with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and leaf inorganic phosphorus (Pi) supply. The experiment was conducted in a factorial arrangement of 2 water levels (+H2O and -H2O), 2 AMF levels (+AMF and -AMF) and 2Pilevels (+Piand -Pi). Leaf primary metabolism, dry shoot biomass and leaf mineral nutrients were evaluated. Inoculated AMF plants under well-watered and drought conditions had higher photosynthesis and higher shoot biomass. Under drought, AMF, Pior AMF+Piplants showed metabolic improvements in photosynthesis, leaf biochemistry and higher biomass compared to the plants under water deficit without AMF or Pi. After rehydration, those plants submitted to drought with AMF, Pior AMF+Pishowed a faster recovery of photosynthesis compared to treatment under water deficit without AMF or Pi. However, plants under the drought condition with AMF showed a higher net photosynthesis rate. These findings suggest that AMF, Pior AMF+Piincrease the drought tolerance in P. pyramidalis, and AMF associations under well-watered conditions increase shoot biomass and, under drought, promoted faster recovery of photosynthesis. labels: #Minerals'
b"Chemometric analysis are used for food authenticity evaluation, correlating botanical and geographical origins with food chemical composition. This research was carried out in order to prove that it is possible linked red wines to Nero d'Avola and Syrah cultivars of Vitis vinifera according to their mineral content, while the values of the physical and chemical parameters do not affect relevantly this discrimination. The levels of mineral elements were determined by ICP-OES and ICP-MS. Samples from cv Nero d'Avola had the highest content of Zn, Cr, Ni, As and Cd, whereas the highest mineral concentration in cv Syrah samples was represented by K, Mg, Cu, and Sb. The research highlights that it is possible linked red wines to Nero d'Avola and Syrah cultivars of V. vinifera according to their mineral contents, adding knowledge to the determination studies of the wine botanical origin. labels: #Minerals"
b"Returning samples from Mars will require an effective method to assess and select the highest-priority geological materials. The ideal instrument for sample triage would be simple in operation, limited in its demand for resources, and rich in produced diagnostic information. Pyrolysis-Fourier infrared spectroscopy (pyrolysis-FTIR) is a potentially attractive triage instrument that considers both the past habitability of the sample depositional environment and the presence of organic matter that may reflect actual habitation. An important consideration for triage protocols is the sensitivity of the instrumental method. Experimental data indicate pyrolysis-FTIR sensitivities for organic matter at the tens of parts per million level. The mineral matrix in which the organic matter is hosted also has an influence on organic detection. To provide an insight into matrix effects, we mixed well-characterized organic matter with a variety of dry minerals, to represent the various inorganic matrices of Mars samples, prior to analysis. During pyrolysis-FTIR, serpentinites analogous to those on Mars indicative of the Phyllocian Era led to no negative effects on organic matter detection; sulfates analogous to those of the Theiikian Era led, in some instances, to the combustion of organic matter; and palagonites, which may represent samples from the Siderikian Era, led, in some instances, to the chlorination of organic matter. Any negative consequences brought about by these mineral effects can be mitigated by the correct choice of thermal extraction temperature. Our results offer an improved understanding of how pyrolysis-FTIR can perform during sample triage on Mars. Key Words: Mars-Life-detection instruments-Search for Mars' organics-Biosignatures. Astrobiology 16, 831-845. labels: #Minerals"
b'Periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) have been confirmed to have self-renewal capacity and multidifferentiation potential and are good candidates for periodontal tissue regeneration. Pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) has been demonstrated to promote osteogenesis in non-union fractures, partly by regulating mesenchymal stem cells or osteoblast activity. However, there is no report about the osteo-inductive effect of PEMF stimulation on human PDLSCs (hPDLSCs). Thus, we tested the hypothesis that PEMF biophysical stimulation alone has an influence on the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of hPDLSCs. To detect the osteo-inductive potential of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP9), we transfected the STRO-1+/CD146+hPDLCSs with BMP9-expressing recombinant adenoviruses. We examined the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of hPDLSCs treated with either PEMF (15\xe2\x80\x89Hz, 1\xe2\x80\x89h daily, different intensities), or BMP9, or both stimuli. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay showed that PEMF of different intensities had no effect on the proliferation of hPDLSCs and did not enhance the proliferative capability of BMP9-transfected cells. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting showed that the combination of both PEMFs (1.8 or 2.4\xe2\x80\x89mT) and BMP9 stimulation had a synergistic effect on early and intermediate osteogenic genes and protein expressions of runt-related transcription factor 2, alkaline phosphatase, osteopontin, and late mineralized extracellular matrix formation in hPDLSCs. Bioelectromagnetics. 38:63-77, 2017. \xc2\xa9 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. labels: #Minerals'
b"Globe artichoke has been long considered a nutraceutical food for its valuable content of bioactive compounds. However, beside a well-known polyphenol profile, poor information is available about its metabolite and mineral composition. The aim of this study was to investigate edible parts of Sicilian artichokes, 'Spinoso di Menfi' and 'Violetto di Niscemi', by1H NMR and ICP-MS for elucidating these compositional aspects. Although bracts and hearts of both artichokes shared a very similar metabolite pattern, 'Spinoso di Menfi' showed a higher number of metabolites, such as amino acids and polyphenols, than 'Violetto di Niscemi'. 'Spinoso di Menfi' was also marked by higher levels of macro- and microelements when compared to 'Violetto di Niscemi'. Also, artichoke heart demonstrated to accumulate higher mineral levels than bracts.1H NMR and ICP-MS successfully profiled metabolites and metals in such plant food, partially covering the lack of literature data about 'Spinoso di Menfi' and 'Violetto di Niscemi' artichokes. labels: #Minerals"
b'Environmental magnetic and geochemical analyses combined with210Pb dating were carried out on a sediment core off Goa from Arabian Sea to reconstruct the sedimentation history of last three and a half centuries and to investigate the impact of onshore iron ore mining on the offshore sedimentation. A drastic increase in sedimentation rate and mineral magnetic concentration parameters divides the core into two units (1&2) at a depth of 41cm (1982CE). The high magnetic susceptibility values in Unit 1 sediments are coeval with increased iron ore production on land and illustrate the role of terrestrial mining on the increased offshore sedimentation. The early diagenetic signals were observed in Unit 2 of the core with low concentration parameters, coarse magnetic grain size and magnetically hard mineralogy. The geochemical data of the core also record the Little Ice Age (LIA) climatic events of Dalton and Maunder solar minima. labels: #Minerals'
b'The effect of confining pressure (CP) on the diffusion of tritiated-water (HTO) and iodide (I-) tracers through Ordovician rocks from the Michigan Basin, southwestern Ontario, Canada, and Opalinus Clay from Schlattingen, Switzerland was investigated in laboratory experiments. Four samples representing different formations and lithologies in the Michigan Basin were studied: Queenston Formation shale, Georgian Bay Formation shale, Cobourg Formation limestone and Cobourg Formation argillaceous limestone. Estimated in situ vertical stresses at the depths from which the samples were retrieved range from 12.0 to 17.4MPa (Michigan Basin) and from 21 to 23MPa (Opalinus Clay). Effective diffusion coefficients (De) were determined in through-diffusion experiments. With HTO tracer, applying CP resulted in decreases in Deof 12.5% for the Queenston Formation shale (CPmax=12MPa), 30% for the Georgian Bay Formation shale (15MPa), 34% for the Cobourg Formation limestone (17.4MPa), 31% for the Cobourg Formation argillaceous limestone (17.4MPa) and 43-46% for the Opalinus Clay (15MPa). Decreases in Dewere larger for the I-tracer: 13.8% for the Queenston shale, 42% for the Georgian Bay shale, 50% for the Cobourg Formation limestone, 55% for the Cobourg Formation argillaceous limestone and 63-68% for the Opalinus Clay. The tracer-specific nature of the response is attributed to an increasing influence of anion exclusion as the pore size decreases at higher CP. Results from the shales (including Opalinus Clay) indicate that the pressure effect on Decan be represented by a linear relationship between Deand ln(CP), which provides valuable predictive capability. The nonlinearity results in a relatively small change in Deat high CP, suggesting that it is not necessary to apply the exact in situ pressure conditions in order to obtain a good estimate of the in situ diffusion coefficient. Most importantly, the CP effect on shale is reversible (\xc2\xb112%) suggesting that, for argillaceous rocks, it is possible to obtain Devalues that are representative of the in-situ condition by conducting measurements on re-pressurized samples that were obtained with standard drilling practices. This may not be the case for brittle rock samples as the results from limestone suggest that irreversible damage occurred during the pressure cycling. labels: #Minerals'
b'Owing to the suspected toxicity and carcinogenicity of tungstate (VI) oxyanions [i.e. mono tungstate and several polytungstate, generally represented by W (VI)], the environmental fate of W (VI) has been widely studied. Sorption is regarded as a major mechanism by which W (VI) species are retained in the solid/water interface. Iron (hydr)oxides have been considered important environmental sinks for W (VI) species. Here we report sorption mechanisms of W (VI) on a common iron oxide mineral-hematite under environmentally relevant solution properties using in situ attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopic probes. Initial W (VI) loadings varied from 10 to 200\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM\xc2\xa0at fixed pH values ranged from 4.6 to 8.1. For pH envelop (pHs\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa04.6, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.5, and 8.1) experiments, fixed W (VI) concentrations (i.e. 10&200\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) were used to understand the effects of pH. The results indicated that at acidic pH values (pH\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa06.0) the sorbed polytungstate surface species are prominent at 200\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM initial W (VI) conc. The pH envelop experiments revealed that sorbed polytungstates can be present even at lower initial W (VI) conc. (i.e. 10\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) at pH values<5.5. Overall, our in situ ATR-FTIR experiments indicated that W (VI) forms inner-sphere type bonds on hematite surface and the strength of the interaction increases with decreasing pH. In addition, initial W (VI) concentration affected the sorption mechanisms of W (VI) on hematite. Our study will aid the molecular level understanding of W (VI) retention on iron oxide surfaces. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study investigates the geochemical characteristics of recent shallow-water aragonite-rich sediments from the karstic marine lakes located in the pristine environment on the island of Mljet (Adriatic Sea). Different trace elements were used as authigenic mineral formation, palaeoredox and pollution indicators. The distribution and the historical record of trace elements deposition mostly depended on the sedimentological processes associated with the formation of aragonite, early diagenetic processes governed by the prevailing physico-chemical conditions and on the recent anthropogenic activity. This study demonstrated that Sr could be used as a proxy indicating authigenic formation of aragonite in a marine carbonate sedimentological environment. Distribution of the redox sensitive elements Mo, Tl, U and Cd was used to identify changes in redox conditions in the investigated lake system and to determine the geochemical cycle of these elements through environmental changes over the last 100 years. The significant enrichment of these elements and the presence of early formed nanostructured authigenic framboidal pyrite in laminated deeper parts of sediment in Malo Jezero, indicate sporadic events of oxygen-depleted euxinic conditions in the recent past. Concentrations of trace elements were in the range characteristic for non-contaminated marine carbonates. However, the increase in the concentrations of Zn, Cu, Pb, Sn, Bi in the upper-most sediment strata of Veliko Jezero indicates a low level of trace element pollution, resulting from anthropogenic inputs over the last 40 years. The presence of butyltin compounds (BuTs) in the surface sediment of Veliko Jezero additionally indicates the anthropogenic influence in the recent past. labels: #Minerals'
b"Due to their small size, zinc oxide (ZnO) nanoparticles (NPs) are readily absorbed and easily cross biological barriers, which make them promising candidates as diet additives. However, some studies have reported that ZnO NPs cause toxicity; therefore, their safety and potency as diet additives for farm animals should be established. This study was the first to fully evaluate the effects of ZnO NPs on the homeostasis of eight elements in seven organs/tissues. The regulation of element homeostasis was found to be organ specific with no influence on oxidation status, anti-oxidation capability, or organ damage. ZnO NPs may specifically regulate the homeostasis of mineral elements and affect the following correlations: (1) between the element content in each organ and the concentration of Zn used in ZnSO4or ZnO NP treatments; (2) between ZnO NP and ZnSO4treatments for the same element in each organ; and (3) between elements (in each organ in ZnSO4or ZnO NP treatments) in layers' organs/tissues. The use of ZnO NPs as diet additives for animals should be implemented cautiously because, among other uncertainties, they may affect mineral element content. labels: #Minerals"
b'Isoproturon (IPU) degradation in an agricultural soil inoculated with an isolated IPU-degrader strain (Sphingomonas sp. strain AK1, IS) or a microbial consortium (MC) harboring this strain, with or without carrier material, were investigated in soil microcosm experiments during 46 days. Effect of the carrier material and inoculation size on IPU-degradation efficacy of the inoculants were studied. Mineralization, extractable residues and non-extractable residues of14C-labeled IPU were analyzed. The low IPU mineralization in untreated soil (7.0%) was enhanced to different extents by inoculation of IS (17.4%-46.0%) or MC (58.9%-67.5%). Concentrations of IPU residues in soils amended with MC (0.002-0.095\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g dry soil-1) were significantly lower than in soils amended with IS (0.02-0.67\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g dry soil-1) and approximately 10 times lower than in the uninoculated soil (0.06-0.80\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g dry soil-1). Less extractable residues and non-extractable residues were detected in soil with higher IPU mineralization. Inoculation size (as indicated by the volume of liquid cultures or by the number of carrier particles) determined the IPU-removal efficacy of IS in soil, but this effect was less pronounced for MC. The low sorption of IPU to soil and the decreasing IPU-mineralizing rates suggested incapability of IS to establish the IPU-mineralizing function in the soil. The thorough removal of IPU and persistent IPU-mineralizing activity of soil inoculated with MC indicated a high persistence of IPU-metabolic trait. Our results showed that microbial consortia might be more efficient than single degrader strains to enhance clean-up of organic chemicals in soil. labels: #Minerals'
b'The toxicity of vanadium in soils depends on its sorption to soil components. Here we studied the vanadate(V) sorption properties of 26 mineral soils. The data were used to optimise parameters for a Freundlich equation with a pH term. Vanadium K-edge XANES spectroscopy for three selected soils confirmed that the added vanadate(V) had accumulated mostly as adsorbed vanadate(V) on Fe and Al hydrous oxides, with only minor contributions from organically complexed vanadium(IV). Data on pH-dependent V solubility for seven soils showed that on average 0.36\xc2\xa0H+accompanied each V during adsorption and desorption. The resulting model provided reasonable fits to the V sorption data, with r2\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.99 for 20 of 26 soils. The observed KdSvalue, i.e. the ratio of total to dissolved V, was strongly dependent on V addition and soil; it varied between 3 and 4 orders of magnitude. The model was used to calculate the Freundlich sorption strength (FSS), i.e. the amount of V sorbed at [V]\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa02.5\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1, in the concentration range of observed plant toxicities. A close relationship between FSS and oxalate-extractable Fe and Al was found (r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.85) when one acidic soil was removed from the regression. The FSS varied between 27 and 8718\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0V kg-1, showing that the current environmental guidelines can be both under- and overprotective for vanadium. labels: #Minerals'
b'Carotenoids and phenolic profile, antioxidant activity as well as concentrations of selected macronutrients (K, N, Mg, Ca and Na) and micronutrients (Zn, Cu and Mn) in flesh and peel of peach fruit were recorded at two harvest dates. Predominant mineral was potassium, followed by calcium, magnesium and sodium. The concentration of most micronutrients was greater in the peel than in the flesh especially in early season. The concentration of most elements in flesh and peel decreased during fruit maturation. Total carotenoids content varied with respect to the cultivar. \xce\xb2-cryptoxanthin and \xce\xb2-carotene were the major carotenoids in both tissues and flesh contain the lowest amounts. Neochlorogenic acid, chlorogenic acid, catechin, epicatechin, gallic acid, rutin, quercetin-3-O-galactoside, cyanidin-3-O-glucoside, cyanidin-3-O-rutinoside, were detected in both peel and flesh, with chlorogenic acid and catechin being the predominant components. Peel extracts showed markedly higher antioxidant activities, when estimated by ABTS or DPPH assays, than the flesh counterparts, consistent with the observed higher phenolic content. Overall, total phenolics levels increased at full ripening stage in both peel and flesh. The results found herein provide important data on carotenoids, phenolic and macro- and micronutrient changes during fruit growth, and emphases peach fruit as a potential functional food. labels: #Minerals'
b'PURPOSE: To present a modified surgical technique to perform Descemet membrane endothelial keratoplasty (DMEK) in previously vitrectomized eyes and to analyze its safety and efficacy.METHODS: A retrospective analysis of previously vitrectomized eyes that underwent DMEK at Toronto Western Hospital was performed. The modified DMEK technique that was used included placement of a posterior pars plana infusion to reduce fluctuations in the anterior chamber depth and its excessive deepening.RESULTS: Twelve eyes of 12 patients (5 females and 7 males) aged 65.3 \xc2\xb1 21.5 years were included. Mean best-corrected visual acuity improved significantly from 1.72 \xc2\xb1 0.62 logMAR (mean Snellen \xe2\x88\xbc20/1040) preoperatively to 1.01 \xc2\xb1 0.64 logMAR (mean Snellen \xe2\x88\xbc20/200) at 6 months postoperatively (P = 0.017). Mean donor endothelial cell density was 2658 \xc2\xb1 229 cells/mm preoperatively and 1732 \xc2\xb1 454 cells/mm at 6 months after the procedure (mean percentage cell loss of 31.8%) (P = 0.046). There were no significant intraoperative complications, and no graft failures. One eye had graft detachment, which resolved after 2 rebubbling procedures. One eye had retinal detachment, which was corrected surgically.CONCLUSIONS: The use of posterior pars plana infusion in previously vitrectomized eyes stabilizes the anterior segment during DMEK, allowing for performance of DMEK surgery, and can potentially reduce intraoperative and postoperative complications. labels: #Minerals'
b'Rocks eaten by wild animals on the Bolshoy Shanduyskiy kudur in the Sikhote-Alin region (Russian Federation) are zeolite-clay mineral complexes-products of weathering of zeolitized vitric tuffs of rhyolite composition, deposited in aqueous medium within the volcanic caldera of about 55 million years ago. By composition of rock-forming oxides, the tuffs refer to high-potassium calc-alkaline series. In trace elements of most favorite kudurites of the Bolshoy Shanduyskiy kudur, there are significantly increased contents of most of rare earth elements (2-5 times in comparison with surrounding rocks). The results of our analysis of geological and geochemical data on kudurs and kudurites in another part of the Sikhote-Alin, as well as on other regions of the world (particularly, in Africa and Indonesia), taking into account new data on the prevalence of rare earth elements in living matter and their medical and biological properties, enable us to consider the version of causal connection of the geophagy with rare earth elements. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Environmental enteric dysfunction (EED) and linear growth stunting affect many rural agrarian children in the developing world and contribute to the persistently high rates of stunting that are observed worldwide. Effective interventions to consistently ameliorate EED are lacking.OBJECTIVE: We tested whether a bundle of safe and affordable interventions would decrease EED and stunting over 12-24 wk in a cohort of rural Malawian children 12-35 mo old.METHODS: This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in which the intervention group received a single dose of albendazole and 14 d of zinc at enrollment and after 20 wk. The intervention group also received a daily multiple micronutrient powder throughout the 24 wk of study. The primary outcomes were improvements in EED, as measured by the urinary lactulose-to-mannitol ratio (L:M ratio) from dual-sugar absorption testing, and linear growth. Urinary L:M ratios and anthropometric measurements were evaluated after 12 and 24 wk of intervention and compared with a placebo group that did not receive any of these interventions.RESULTS: A total of 254 children were enrolled at a mean age of 24 mo; 55% were female. Their mean weight-for-age z score was -1.5, and their mean length-for-age z score was -0.9. After 12 and 24 wk of study, increases in the L:M ratio did not differ between the intervention group (0.071 and 0.088 units, respectively) and the placebo group (0.073 and 0.080 units, respectively) (P = 0.87 and 0.19, respectively). Relative changes in length and weight also did not differ significantly between groups at any time point.CONCLUSION: The combined usage of albendazole, zinc, and a daily multiple micronutrient powder did not decrease EED or stunting in this population of agrarian children 12-35 mo old in rural Malawi. Alternative interventions to improve these diseases should be investigated. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT02253095. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVE: Most cases of hypophosphatasia (HPP) exhibit early loss of primary teeth. Results of micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) analysis of teeth with HPP have not yet been reported. The purpose of the present study was to describe the size and mineral density distribution and mapping of exfoliated teeth with HPP using micro CT.STUDY DESIGN: Seven exfoliated teeth were obtained from a patient with HPP. Exfoliated teeth sizes were measured on micro CT images and mineral densities of the mandibular primary central incisors were determined.RESULTS: Partial dentures were fabricated for the patient to replace the eight primary teeth which had exfoliated. Most primary teeth sizes were within the normal range. The mean values of enamel and dentin mineral densities in teeth with HPP were 1.35 and 0.88 g/cm3, respectively, in the mandibular primary central incisors.CONCLUSION: Mineral density distribution and mapping revealed that the values in teeth with HPP were lower than the homonymous teeth controls in all regions from the crown to apex. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that the differences between HPP and controls were larger on the crown side and the differences tended to converge on the apex side. These results suggested that the present patient showed mild hypomineralization in the primary dentition. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study was designed to examine the cellular and systemic nutrient sensing mechanisms as well as the intermediary metabolism responses in turbot (Scophthalmus maximus L.) fed with fishmeal diet (FM diet), 45% of FM replaced by meat and bone meal diet (MBM diet) or MBM diet supplemented with essential amino acids to match the amino acid profile of FM diet (MBM+AA diet). During the one month feeding trial, feed intake was not affected by the different diets. However, MBM diet caused significant reduction of specific growth rate and nutrient retentions. Compared with the FM diet, MBM diet down-regulated target of rapamycin (TOR) and insulin-like growth factor (IGFs) signaling pathways, whereas up-regulated the amino acid response (AAR) signaling pathway. Moreover, MBM diet significantly decreased glucose and lipid anabolism, while increased muscle protein degradation and lipid catabolism in liver. MBM+AA diet had no effects on improvement of MBM diet deficiencies. Compared with fasted, re-feeding markedly activated the TOR signaling pathway, IGF signaling pathway and glucose, lipid metabolism, while significantly depressed the protein degradation signaling pathway. These results thus provided a comprehensive display of molecular responses and a better explanation of deficiencies generated after fishmeal replacement by other protein sources. labels: #Minerals'
b'Few systematic studies have been carried out on integrated N balance in extremely arid oasis agricultural areas. A two-year field experiment was conducted to evaluate the N input and output balances under long-term fertilization conditions. Five treatments were chosen, namely CK (no fertilizer), NPK, NPKS (10% straw return N and 90% chemical N), NPKM (one third urea-N, two thirds sheep manure) and NPKM+ (1.5 times NPKM). The results show an abundance of dry and wet N deposition (33 kg N ha-1 yr-1) in this area. All treatments (excluding CK) showed no significant difference in wheat production (P>0.05). NPKM gave higher cotton yields (P<0.05). In both crops, NPKM and NPKS treatments had a relatively higher N harvest index (NHI). 15N-labeled results reveal that the fertilizer N in all N treatments leached to<1 m depth and a high proportion of fertilizer-N remained in the top 60 cm of the soil profile. The NPKM+ treatment had the highest residual soil mineral N (Nmin, 558 kg Nd ha-1), and NPKM and NPKS treatments had relatively low soil Nmin values (275 and 293 kg N ha-1, respectively). Most of the treatments exhibited very high apparent N losses, especially the NPKM+ treatment (369kg N ha-1). Our arid research area had a strikingly high N loss compared to less arid agricultural areas. Nitrogen inputs therefore need careful reconsideration, especially the initial soil Nmin, fertilizer N inputs, dry and wet deposition, and appropriate organic and straw inputs which are all factors that must be taken into account under very arid conditions. labels: #Minerals'
b'The Amarillo River (Famatina range, Argentina, ~29\xc2\xb0 S and ~67\xc2\xb0 W) is unusual because acid mine drainage (AMD) is superimposed on the previously existing acid rock drainage (ARD) scenario, as a Holocene paleolake sedimentary sequence shows. In a markedly oxidizing environment, its water is currently ferrous and of the sulfate-magnesium type with high electrical conductivity (>10\xc2\xa0mS\xc2\xa0cm-1in uppermost catchments). At the time of sampling, the interaction of the mineralized zone with the remnants of mining labors determined an increase in some elements (e.g., Cu ~3 to ~45\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1; As ~0.2 to ~0.5\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1). Dissolved concentrations were controlled by pH, decreasing significantly by precipitation of neoformed minerals (jarosite and schwertmannite) and subsequent metal sorption (~700\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1As, 320\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1Zn). Dilution also played a significant role (i.e., by the mixing with circumneutral waters which reduces the dissolved concentration and also enhances mineral precipitation). Downstream, most metals exhibited a significant attenuation (As 100\xc2\xa0%, Fe 100\xc2\xa0%, Zn 99\xc2\xa0%). PHREEQC-calculated saturation indices (SI) indicated that Fe-bearing minerals, especially schwertmannite, were supersaturated throughout the basin. All positive SI increased through the input of circumneutral water. PHREEQC inverse geochemical models showed throughout the upper and middle basin, that about 1.5\xc2\xa0mmol\xc2\xa0L-1of Fe-bearing minerals were precipitated. The modeling exercise of mixing different waters yielded results with a>99\xc2\xa0% of correlation between observed and modeled data. labels: #Minerals'
b"Mineral surfaces are often proposed as the sites of critical processes in the emergence of life. Clay minerals in particular are thought to play significant roles in the origin of life including polymerizing, concentrating, organizing, and protecting biopolymers. In these scenarios, the impact of minerals on biopolymer folding is expected to influence evolutionary processes. These processes include both the initial emergence of functional structures in the presence of the mineral and the subsequent transition away from the mineral-associated niche. The initial evolution of function depends upon the number and distribution of sequences capable of functioning in the presence of the mineral, and the transition to new environments depends upon the overlap between sequences that evolve on the mineral surface and sequences that can perform the same functions in the mineral's absence. To examine these processes, we evolved self-cleaving ribozymes in vitro in the presence or absence of Na-saturated montmorillonite clay mineral particles. Starting from a shared population of random sequences, RNA populations were evolved in parallel, along separate evolutionary trajectories. Comparative sequence analysis and activity assays show that the impact of this clay mineral on functional structure selection was minimal; it neither prevented common structures from emerging, nor did it promote the emergence of new structures. This suggests that montmorillonite does not improve RNA's ability to evolve functional structures; however, it also suggests that RNAs that do evolve in contact with montmorillonite retain the same structures in mineral-free environments, potentially facilitating an evolutionary transition away from a mineral-associated niche. labels: #Minerals"
b'Uranium groundwater contamination due to U mining and processing affects numerous sites globally. Bioreduction of soluble, mobile U(VI) to U(IV)-bearing solids is potentially a very effective remediation strategy. Uranium isotopes (238U/235U) have been utilized to track the progress of microbial reduction, with laboratory and field studies finding a \xe2\x88\xbc1\xe2\x80\xb0 isotopic fractionation, with the U(IV) product enriched in238U. However, the isotopic fractionation produced by adsorption may complicate the use of238U/235U to trace microbial reduction. A previous study found that adsorption of U(VI) onto Mn oxides produced a -0.2\xe2\x80\xb0 fractionation with the adsorbed U(VI) depleted in238U. In this study, adsorption to quartz, goethite, birnessite, illite, and aquifer sediments induced an average isotopic fractionation of -0.15\xe2\x80\xb0 with the adsorbed U(VI) isotopically lighter than coexisting aqueous U(VI). In bicarbonate-bearing matrices, the fractionation depended little on the nature of the sorbent, with only birnessite producing an atypically large fractionation. In the case of solutions with ionic strengths much lower than those of typical groundwater, less isotopic fractionation was produced than U(VI) solutions with greater ionic strength. Studies using U isotope data to assess U(VI) reduction must consider adsorption as a lesser, but significant isotope fractionation process. labels: #Minerals'
b'The use of the crestal approach to augment vertical height of the posterior maxilla for dental implant placement is reviewed in this article. The review of the literature documents the success of using a procedure that has minimal complications associated with it when performed correctly. An algorithmic approach is presented to guide surgeons on using the crestal osteotome approach for posterior maxillary augmentation. labels: #Minerals'
b'PURPOSE: To compare complications after cataract surgery using 2 different phacoemulsification fluidic settings.METHODS: One cataract surgeon (M.K.) performed phacoemulsification cataract surgery in one eye of 43 patients in this randomized prospective clinical study conducted at St. Erik Eye Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. The patients were randomized to phacoemulsification with low fluidic settings in one group and standard fluidic settings in the other group. Corrected distance visual acuity (CDVA), central corneal thickness (CCT), endothelial cell density (ECD), anterior chamber flare, intraocular pressure (IOP), and macular thickness were measured preoperatively and postoperatively, with a final evaluation at 3 months. Surgical time, ultrasound energy, and amount of balanced saline solution used intraoperatively were recorded.RESULTS: Twenty-one patients were included in the group with standard settings and 22 patients were in the group with low settings. There were no significant differences between the groups in CDVA, CCT, flare, IOP, macular thickness, or ECD at 1 day, 3 weeks, or 3 months postoperatively. The surgical time was significantly (p = 0.009) longer and cumulative dissipated energy was significantly (p&lt;0.001) higher in the group with low fluidic settings.CONCLUSIONS: Although the surgical time and ECD were significantly higher in the group with low fluidic settings, there were no differences in the CCT, ECD, macular thickness, or inflammation postoperatively between the low and standard fluidic settings during phacoemulsification. labels: #Minerals'
b'The effect of co-culture microorganisms with different initial proportions on chalcopyrite bioleaching was investigated. Communities were rebuilt by six typical strains isolated from the same habitat. The results indicated, by community with more sulfur oxidizers at both 30 and 40\xc2\xb0C, the final copper extraction rate was 19.8% and 6.5% higher, respectively, than that with more ferrous oxidizers. The variations of pH, redox potential, ferrous and copper ions in leachate also provided evidences that community with more sulfur oxidizers was more efficient. Community succession of free and attached cells revealed that initial proportions played decisive roles on community dynamics at 30\xc2\xb0C, while communities shared similar structures, not relevant to initial proportions at 40\xc2\xb0C. X-ray diffraction analysis confirmed different microbial functions on mineral surface. A mechanism model for chalcopyrite bioleaching was established coupling with community succession. This will provide theoretical basis for reconstructing an efficient community in industrial application. labels: #Minerals'
b'Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is capable of modifying the surfaces of soil minerals (e.g., Fe hydroxides) or even forming stable co-precipitates with Fe(III) in a neutral environment. The DOM/Fe co-precipitation may alter biogeochemical carbon cycling in soils if the relatively mobile DOM is sorbed by soil minerals against leaching, runoff, and biodegradation. In this study, we aimed to determine the structural development of DOM/Fe co-precipitates in relation to changes in pH and C/(C + Fe) ratios using XRD, XPS, Fe K-edge XAS, FTIR, and C-NEXAFS techniques. The results showed that in the system with bulk C/(C + Fe) molar ratios \xe2\x89\xa40.65, the ferrihydrite-like Fe domains were precipitated as the core and covered by the C shells. When the C/(C + Fe) molar ratio ranged between 0.71 and 0.89, the emerging Fe-C bonding suggested a more substantial association between Fe domains including edge- and corner-sharing FeO6octahedra and DOM. With C/(C + Fe) bulk molar ratios \xe2\x89\xa50.92, only corner-sharing FeO6octahedra along with Fe-C bonding were found. The homogeneously distributed C and Fe domains caused the enhancement of Fe and C solubilization from co-precipitates. The C/(C + Fe) ratios dominated structural compositions and stabilities of C/Fe co-precipitates and may directly affect the Fe and C cycles in soils. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of proton pump inhibitor (PPI), the most potent acid-suppressing drug, administration and intake of a combination of yogurt and galactooligosaccharides (YG) on bone and mineral metabolism in adult rats. Twelve-week-old male Wistar rats were divided into three groups: a control group fed the control diet with vehicle administration, a PPI group fed the control diet with PPI administration and a YG + PPI group fed the YG diet with PPI administration. All of the groups received their respective experimental diets and daily subcutaneous injection of the vehicle or PPI for 12 weeks. The PPI group showed significantly lower bone mineral density (BMD) of the femur and the lumbar vertebrae and serum fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) and significantly higher phosphorus absorption and serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D) than the control group, although PPI did not affect calcium absorption. The PPI + YG group showed significantly higher BMD and serum FGF23 and significantly lower phosphorus absorption and serum 1,25(OH)2D than the PPI group. Furthermore, the PPI + YG group showed higher calcium absorption than the control group. These results suggest that although PPI administration did not affect calcium absorption, it adversely affected BMD and influenced phosphorus metabolism in adult rats. Furthermore, the YG diet beneficially affected BMD and attenuated the effects of PPI administration on phosphorus metabolism. labels: #Minerals'
b'Composite scaffolds, especially polymer/calcium phosphate composite scaffolds with porous structures are promising materials for bone tissue engineering. Depositing minerals on the surface of polymer scaffolds is a general method however, attachment between inorganic minerals and organic polymeric is a big challenge, because of the absence of strong interactions between the interfaces. In this work, polymer/calcium phosphate composite scaffolds with good attachment were fabricated through introduction of calcium and alternate mineralization. Calcium methacrylate was polymerized into the polymer scaffold and calcium acted as "ion glue" endowing the polymer/calcium phosphate composite good interfacial interaction. After alternate mineralization, the surface of polymer scaffold with calcium was coated with plate-like minerals which attached to polymer well and composite scaffold preserved the porous morphology. The results demonstrated that the concept of "ion glue" provided an option for the improvement of attachment between inorganic minerals and organic polymer. The results also indicated that the good attachment of minerals with polymer scaffolds enhanced the mechanical properties and improved the cell attachment of the polymer scaffolds. labels: #Minerals'
b'When an efficient automated coating machine is used to process layer-by-layer (LBL) deposited nanofibrous mats, it causes an obvious planar effect on the surface of the mats, which can be eliminated through ultimate immersion. During this process, chitosan (CS) - rectorite (REC) intercalated composite films are built on the surface of cellulose acetate (CA) nanofibrous mats by a coating machine. Then, the immersion process is utilized to allow positively charged CS or CS-REC intercalated composites to uniformly assemble on the surface of negatively charged CA nanofibers. An investigation into the morphology of the resultant scaffolds confirms that the uniquely small pore size, high specific surface area and typically three-dimensional (3D) structure of nanofibrous mats remain present. The results of Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) indicate that it is feasible to assemble nanofibrous mats using a coating machine. The intercalated structure of CS-REC is confirmed by the results of small-angle X-ray diffraction (SAXRD) and wide-angle X-ray diffraction (WAXRD). The results of the cell experiment and antibacterial test demonstrate that the addition of REC not only has little impact on the cytocompatibility of the mats but also enhances their ability to inhibit bacteria. labels: #Minerals'
b'Natural toxins produced by freshwater cyanobacteria, such as cylindrospermopsin, have been regarded as an emergent environmental threat. Despite the risks for food safety, the impact of these water contaminants in agriculture is not yet fully understood. Carrots (Daucus carota) are root vegetables, extensively consumed worldwide with great importance for human nourishment and economy. It is, therefore, important to evaluate the possible effects of using water contaminated with cyanotoxins on carrot cultivation. The aim of this work was to investigate cylindrospermopsin effects on D. carota grown in soil and irrigated for 30 days, with a Chrysosporum ovalisporum extract containing environmentally relevant concentrations of cylindrospermopsin (10 and 50\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg/L). The parameters evaluated were plant growth, photosynthetic capacity, and nutritional value (mineral content) in roots of carrots, as these are the edible parts of this plant crop. The results show that, exposure to cylindrospermopsin did not have a clear negative effect on growth or photosynthesis of D. carota, even leading to an increase of both parameters. However, alterations in mineral contents were detected after exposure to crude extracts of C. ovalisporum containing cylindrospermopsin. A general decline was observed for most minerals (Ca, Mg, Na, Fe, Mn, Zn, Mo, and P), although an increase was shown in the case of K and Cu, pointing to a possible interference of the cyanobacterial extract in mineral uptake. This study is the first to evaluate the effects of C. ovalisporum extracts on a root vegetable, however, more research is necessary to understand the effects of this toxin in environmentally relevant scenarios. labels: #Minerals'
b'Deaths in preweaned lambs associated with administering oral minerals containing copperCongenital malformations in calvesIdiopathic necrotising enteritis in calvesAbomasal obstruction due to trichobezoars in suckled calvesRadial neuropathy (kangaroo gait) in a ewe These are among matters discussed in the disease surveillance report for July 2016 from SAC Consulting: Veterinary Services (SAC C VS). labels: #Minerals'
b'Predicting the environmental fate of lead relies on a detailed understanding of its coordination to mineral surfaces, which in turn reflects the innate reactivity of the mineral surface. In this research, we investigated fundamental dependencies in lead adsorption to hematite by coupling extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy on hematite particles (10 and 50 nm) with resonant anomalous X-ray reflectivity (RAXR) to single crystals expressing the (001), (012), or (110) crystallographic face. The EXAFS showed that lead adsorbed in a bidentate inner-sphere manner in both edge and corner sharing arrangements on the FeO6octahedra for both particle sizes. The RAXR measurements confirmed these inner-sphere adsorption modes for all three hematite surfaces and additionally revealed outer-sphere adsorption modes not seen in the EXAFS. Lead uptake was larger and pH dependence was greater for the (012) and (110) surfaces, than the (001) surface, due to their expressing singly- and triply coordinated oxygen atoms the (001) surface lacks. In coupling these two techniques we provide a more detailed and nuanced picture of the coordination of lead to hematite while also providing fundamental insight into the reactivity of hematite. labels: #Minerals'
b'The mobility of toxic elements, such as lead (Pb) can be attenuated by adsorption, incorporation, and precipitation on carbonate minerals in subsurface environments. Here, we report a study of the bulk transformation of single-crystal calcite (CaCO3) into polycrystalline cerussite (PbCO3) through reaction with acidic Pb-bearing solutions. This reaction began with the growth of a cerussite shell on top of calcite surfaces followed by the replacement of the remaining calcite core. The external shape of the original calcite was preserved by a balance between calcite dissolution and cerussite growth controlled by adjusting the Pb2+concentration and pH. The relation between the rounded calcite core and the surrounding lath-shaped cerussite aggregates was imaged by transmission X-ray microscopy, which revealed preferentially elongated cerussite crystals parallel to the surface and edge directions of calcite. The replacement reaction involved concurrent development of \xe2\x88\xbc100 nm wide pores parallel to calcite c-glide or (12\xcc\x850) planes, which may have provided permeability for chemical exchange during the reaction. X-ray reflectivity measurements showed no clear epitaxial relation of cerussite to the calcite (104) surface. These results demonstrate Pb sequestration through mineral replacement reactions and the critical role of nanoporosity (3% by volume) on the solid phase transformation through a dissolution-recrystallization mechanism. labels: #Minerals'
b'Skeletal abnormalities, bone deformities and fractures cause significant losses in broiler production during both rearing and processing. Silicon is an essential mineral for bone and connective tissue synthesis and for calcium absorption during the early stages of bone formation. Performance was not affected by the addition of silicon. However, broilers receiving silicon showed a significant increase of phosphorus, zinc, copper, manganese and ash in the tibia. In conclusion, broiler performance was not impaired by adding the tested silicon product to the drinking water. In addition, bone development improved, as demonstrated by higher mineral and ash content. Further studies are required to determine the optimal concentration of silicon, including heat stress simulations, to better understand the effects of silicon on bone development. labels: #Minerals'
b'The main objective of this study was to compare the performance of two liquid organic fertilizers, an animal and a plant-based fertilizer, with mineral fertilization on citrus trees. The source of the fertilizer (mineral or organic) had significant effect in the nutritional status of the organic and conventionally managed mandarins. Nutrient uptake, vegetative growth, carbohydrate synthesis and soil characteristics were analyzed. Results showed that plants fertilized with animal based liquid fertilizers exhibited higher total biomass with a more profuse development of new developing organs (leaves and fibrous roots). Liquid organic fertilization resulted in an increased uptake of macro and micronutrients compared to mineral fertilized trees. Moreover, organic fertilization positively affected the carbohydrate content (fructose, glucose and sucrose) mainly in summer flush leaves. Liquid organic fertilization also resulted in an increase of soil organic matter content. Animal-based fertilizer, due to intrinsic composition, increased total tree biomass and carbohydrate leaves content, and led to lower soil nitrate concentration and higher P and Mg exchangeable in soil extract compared to vegetal-based fertilizer. Therefore, liquid organic fertilizers could be used as an alternative to traditional mineral fertilization in drip irrigated citrus trees. labels: #Minerals'
b'Background and study aims:The hemostatic powder TC-325 (Hemospray; Cook Medical, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA) has shown promising results in the treatment of upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB) in expert centers in pilot studies. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of TC-325 in a large prospective registry of use in routine practice.Patients and methods:The data of all patients treated with TC-325 were prospectively collected through a national registry. Outcomes were the immediate feasibility and efficacy of TC-325 application, as well as the rates of rebleeding at Day 8 and Day 30.\xe2\x80\x8aMultivariate analysis was performed to determine predictive factors of rebleeding.Results:A total of 202 patients were enrolled and 64 endoscopists participated from 20 centers. TC-325 was used as salvage therapy in 108 patients (53.5\xe2\x80\x8a%). The etiology of bleeding was an ulcer in 75 patients (37.1\xe2\x80\x8a%), tumor in 61 (30.2\xe2\x80\x8a%), postendoscopic therapy in 35 (17.3\xe2\x80\x8a%), or other in 31 (15.3\xe2\x80\x8a%). Application of the hemostatic powder was found to be very easy or easy in 31.7\xe2\x80\x8a% and 55.4\xe2\x80\x8a%, respectively. The immediate efficacy rate was 96.5\xe2\x80\x8a%. Recurrence of UGIB was noted at Day 8 and Day 30 in 26.7\xe2\x80\x8a% and 33.5\xe2\x80\x8a%, respectively. Predictive factors of recurrence at Day 8 were melena at initial presentation and use of TC-325 as salvage therapy.Conclusion:These multicenter data confirmed the high rate of immediate hemostasis, excellent feasibility, and good safety profile of TC-325, which could become the treatment of choice in bleeding tumors or postendoscopic bleeding but not in bleeding ulcers where randomized studies are needed.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02595853). labels: #Minerals'
b"Peri- and postmenopausal women commonly suffer from climacteric symptoms. We evaluated the effectiveness and safety of dietary supplement Amberen to relieve vasomotor and psychosomatic symptoms during the course of a 3-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. General clinical assessment, evaluation using the Greene climacteric test and Spielberger-Hanin test, determination of plasma levels of gonadotropins, estradiol, leptin and apolipoproteins were used to evaluate 42-60-year-old women with vasomotor and psychosomatic menopausal symptoms. One hundred and twenty-five women were enrolled in the study and randomized between two groups. Based on the Greene test results, there was a statistically significant improvement (\xd1\x80\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) in 13 out of 21 menopausal symptoms in women who took Amberen. During the course and by the end of the study, patients showed statistically significant changes in the levels of estradiol, gonadotropins and leptin, and decreases in body weight and waist circumference. Spielberger-Hanin test showed that Amberen stabilizes patients' psychological state with a statistically significant decrease in anxiety, increased stress resistance and improved adaptability. Comparative analysis of the vital signs measurements, blood tests and urinalysis did not show any negative effects of Amberen on the patients. Our findings indicate that Amberen can be considered a method of choice to relief mild/moderate climacteric symptoms. labels: #Minerals"
b'Bakground/Aims: Cardiovascular diseases represent the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in patients with cronich kidney disease (CKD). The pathogenesis includes a complex, bidirectional interaction between heart and kidney termed cardiorenal syndrome type 4. The aim of study was to evaluate the association between renal and cardiovascular ultrasonographic parameters and identify early markers of cardiovascular risk.METHODS: A total of 35 patients with CKD and 25 healthy controls, were enrolled and we have evaluated inflammatory indexes, mineral metabolism, renal function, renal and cardiovascular ultrasonographic parameters.RESULTS: Tricuspid anular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) and estimated pulmonary artery systolic pressure (ePAPs) showed a statistically significant difference between CKD patients and healthy controls (p<0.001, p=0.05). Also 25 hydroxyvitaminD (25-OH-VitD), parathyroid hormone (iPTH), posphorus, serum uric acid, renal resistive index (RRI) and C-reactive protein (CRP) showed a significant difference between the two groups (p=0.002, p<0.001, p<0.001, p<0.001, p<0.001, p<0.001). Moreover the TAPSE correlated positively with estimated glomerula filtration rate (eGFR) and negatively with RRI (p=0.05, p=0.008), while ePAPs correlated negatively with eGFR and positively with RRI (p=0.029, p<0.001).CONCLUSION: CKD can contribute to the development and progression of right ventricle dysfunction with endothelial dysfunction, inflammation and mineral metabolism disorders. Accurate assessment of right ventricular function is recommended in patients with CKD. RRI and echocardiographic parameters can be an important instrument for the diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutic assessment of cardio-renal syndrome in these patients. labels: #Minerals'
b'The main objective of this study was to assess the genetic parameters of subclinical disorders associated with subclinical hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, subclinical hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, and hyperphosphatemia, as well as major clinical diseases after calving in Holstein cows. The secondary objective was to estimate the associated genetic and phenotypic correlations among these subclinical and clinical conditions after calving in Holstein cows. The study was conducted in 9dairy herds located in Northern Greece. None of the herds used any kind of preventive measures for milk fever (MF). A total of 1,021 Holstein cows with pedigree information were examined from November 2010 until November 2012. The distribution across parities was 466 (parity 1), 242 (parity 2), 165 (parity 3), and 148 (parity 4 and above) cows. All cows were subjected to a detailed clinical examination and blood was sampled on d 1, 2, 4, and 8 after calving. Serum concentrations of Ca, P, Mg, and K were measured in all samples, whereas \xce\xb2-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) was measured only for d 8. The final data set included 4,064 clinical and 16,848 biochemical records (4,020 Ca, 4,019 P, 4,020Mg, 3,792K, and 997 BHB). Data of 1,988 observations of body condition score at d 1 and 8 were also available. All health traits were analyzed with a univariate random regression model. The genetic analysis for macromineral-related disorders included 986 cows with no obvious signs of MF (35 cows with MF were excluded). Analysis for other health traits included all 1,021 cows. A similar single record model was used for the analysis of BHB. Genetic correlations among traits were estimated with a series of bivariate analyses. Statistically significant daily heritabilities of subclinical hypocalcemia (0.13-0.25), hypophosphatemia (0.18-0.33), subclinical hypomagnesemia (0.11-0.38), and hyperphosphatemia (0.14-0.22) were low to moderate, whereas that of hypokalemia was low (0.08-0.10). The heritability of body condition score was 0.20\xc2\xb10.10. Statistically significant daily heritabilities of clinical diseases were those of MF (0.07-0.11), left displaced abomasum (0.19-0.31), and mastitis (0.15-0.41). Results suggest that these health disorders are heritable traits and could be minimized with proper genetic selection. Statistically significant phenotypic correlations were estimated for the first time between macromineral concentrations and almost all transition cow metabolic and infectious health disorders. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objective of this study was to determine effects of subcutaneous (s.c.) infusions of Ca at calving day on serum concentrations of Ca, P, Mg, \xce\xb2-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), glucose, body condition score (BCS), milk yield, and health in fresh cows receiving a dietary cation-anion difference diet during the dry period. Three hundred seventy-five fresh Holstein cows were blocked based on parity (143 cows in first parity, 108 cows in second parity, and 124 cows in third or greater parity) and randomly assigned to 1 of 4 experimental treatments immediately after calving. Treatments were control group without infusion (control; n=190); 1 s.c. infusion of 250mL of 40% Ca borogluconate (1SC250; n=72) at calving; 1 s.c. infusion of 500mL of 40% Ca borogluconate (1SC500;n=63) at calving; 2 s.c. infusions of 250mL of 40% Ca borogluconate, one immediately after calving and the second 12 to 18h after first infusion (2SC250;n=50). Blood samples were collected immediately after parturition and at 1, 2, 4, and 7d in milk (DIM) for Ca, P, and Mg determination. Milk production, milk composition, and somatic cell count were recorded monthly up to 90 DIM. The evaluation of BCS was performed at calving and at 38 DIM. A subset of 9 cows per treatment group was randomly chosen to measure serum concentration of glucose and BHB at 2, 4, and 7 DIM. Total serum Ca in 1SC250(8.95mg/dL), 1SC500(9.27mg/dL), and 2SC250(9.07mg/dL) was greater during the first week postpartum compared with control (8.45mg/dL). Serum concentrations of P, Mg, BHB, glucose, and milk yield were not affected by treatments. The dry matter intake during the first 24h after calving was higher for treatments 1SC250(13.5kg), 1SC500(15.0kg), and 2SC250(15.6kg) relative to control (12.5kg). Milk somatic cell counts were lower for 1SC500(90.5 cells/mL) and 2SC250(82.2 cells/mL) than control (132.8 cells/mL). Risk ratio was>1 for development of metritis, and clinical and subclinical endometritis in control cows relative to 2SC250cows, which indicates a higher risk of developing disease for control cows (2.03, 1.7, and 1.8 times, respectively). These results suggest that prophylactic s.c. infusions of Ca at calving can improve postpartum Ca status in Holstein cows and intake at 1 DIM. Given the reduction of metritis, clinical and subclinical endometritis, and subclinical hypocalcemia with treatment, the effect of s.c. Ca supplementation on immune status warrants further investigation. labels: #Minerals'
b"BACKGROUND: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) is associated with nutrient deficiencies, but the optimal supplement regimen remains unclear. We assessed patient-reported adherence to and efficacy of Mayo Clinic's post-RYGB vitamin/mineral supplement protocol and the related incidence of common nutrient deficiencies.METHODS: Data were collected on 287 obese patients who underwent RYGB. Patient-reported supplement adherence was assessed via medication/supplement lists generated by medication reconciliation in hospital dismissal summaries and clinic notes at 6, 12, and 18-36\xc2\xa0months postsurgery. Deficiencies were assessed via measurements of hemoglobin, ferritin, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and vitamins A, E, and B12in the setting of our supplementation protocol.RESULTS: Patient-reported adherence to multivitamin/minerals and subcutaneous vitamin B12was sustained in>92\xc2\xa0% of patients, correlating with low rates of vitamin A, E, and B12deficiencies (4.9, 0, and 3.7\xc2\xa0%, respectively). Rates of calcium supplementation decreased (94.1 to 78.7\xc2\xa0%) while rates of vitamin D and iron use increased over time (39.7 to 65.8 and 6.3 to 23.1\xc2\xa0%, respectively). At 18-36\xc2\xa0months, vitamin D deficiency persisted in 16.2\xc2\xa0% of patients, iron deficiency in 6.7\xc2\xa0% of women and 17.2\xc2\xa0% of men, and anemia in 12.2\xc2\xa0% of women and 34.3\xc2\xa0% of men.CONCLUSION: Compared to previous reports, we found a lower prevalence of micronutrient deficiencies and excellent patient-reported adherence to a standardized multivitamin/mineral and vitamin B12regimen. Continued prevalence of vitamin D deficiency prompts consideration of standardized vitamin D supplementation after RYGB. Anemia and iron deficiency were observed at lower rates than previously reported, but were more common in men compared to women. labels: #Minerals"
b'OBJECTIVES: Guided bone regeneration (GBR) aims to predictably restore missing bone that has been lost due to trauma, periodontal disease or a variety of systemic conditions. Critical to this procedure is the ability of a bone grafting material to predictably serve as a 3-dimensional scaffold capable of inducing cell and bone tissue in-growth at the material surface. Although all bone grafts are osteoconductive to bone-forming osteoblasts, only a small number of commercially available bone grafts with FDA approval are osteoinductive including demineralized freeze-dried bone allographs (DFDBA) and scaffolds containing bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). Recently, a class of synthetic bone grafts fabricated from biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP) sintered at a low temperature have been shown to form ectopic bone formation in non-skeletal sites without the use of growth factors. Therefore, the present study aimed to compare the osteoinductive potential of this group of synthetic BCP alloplasts with autografts, allografts and xenografts.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present study, 4 types of bone grafting materials including autogenous bone harvested with a bone mill, DFDBA (LifeNet, USA), a xenograft derived from bovine bone mineral (NBM, BioOss, Geistlich, Switzerland) and a novel synthetic biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP, Straumman, Switzerland) were implanted into intramuscular pouches of 24 rats and analysed histologically for their ability to form ectopic bone formation around grafting particles. A semi-quantitative osteoinductive score was used to quantify the osteoinductive ability of each bone graft.RESULTS: The results from the present study reveal that (1) autogenous bone resorbed rapidly in vivo, (2) the xenograft showed no potential to form ectopic bone formation and (3) both DFDBA and BCP were able to stimulate ectopic bone formation.CONCLUSION: These studies demonstrate that these newly developed synthetic bone grafts have potential for inducing ectopic bone formation similar to DFDBA. Future clinical testing is necessary to reveal their bone-inducing properties in clinical scenarios including GBR procedures and in combination with implant dentistry.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Novel BCP scaffolds are able to induce ectopic bone formation without the use of osteoinductive growth factors such as BMP2 and thus demonstrate a large clinical possibility to further enhance bone formation for a variety of clinical procedures. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of Osteogain, a new formulation of enamel matrix derivative (EMD) in combination with a grafting material on a wide variety of genes for cytokines, transcription factors and extracellular matrix proteins involved in osteoblast differentiation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Primary human periodontal ligament (PDL) cells were seeded on natural bone mineral (NBM) particles coated with Osteogain for 24\xc2\xa0h and analyzed for regulated gene expression using a human osteogenesis gene super-array kit. Osteoblast-related genes include those transcribed during bone mineralization, ossification, bone metabolism, cell growth and differentiation as well as gene products representing extracellular matrix molecules, transcription factors and cell adhesion molecules.RESULTS: Osteogain significantly upregulated the expression of over 20 of the 100 genes examined including bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), TGF\xce\xb21, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) as well as some of their associated receptors. Osteogain also promoted gene expression of a number of osteoblast differentiation markers including collagen1\xce\xb12 and alkaline phosphatase as well as cell adhesion molecules including fibronectin and a variety of integrin binding proteins. Interestingly, Osteogain promoted calcitonin receptor 55-fold and also promoted annexin A5 gene expression over 12-fold.CONCLUSION: The present study demonstrates that Osteogain is capable of either upregulating or downregulating the expression of a wide variety of genes including those for growth factors and cytokines when combined with a bone grafting material.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results from the present study demonstrate the large and potent effect of addition of Osteogain in combination to a bone grafting material over a wide variety of genes supporting osteogenesis. labels: #Minerals'
b"Iron oxyhydroxide nanoparticles (Fe-NPs) are natural vectors of phosphate (PO4) in the environment. Their mobility is determined by colloidal stability, which is affected by surface composition. This might be manipulated in engineered NPs for environmental or agricultural applications. Here, the stability of PO4-Fe-NPs (HFO/goethite) was determined across contrasting environmental conditions (pH, Ca concentration) and by using fulvates (FA) and polyphosphates (poly-P's) as coatings. The PO4-Fe-NPs are unstable at Ca concentrations above 0.1 mM. Addition of FA and some poly-P's significantly improved stability. Zeta potential explained colloidal stability across treatments; surface charge was calculated with surface complexation models and explained for phytic acid (PA) and hexametaphosphate (HMP) by a partial (1-4 of the 6 PO4units) adsorption to the surface, while the remaining PO4units stayed in solution. This study suggests that Ca concentration mainly affects the mobility of natural or engineered PO4-Fe-NPs and that HMP is a promising agent for increasing colloidal stability. labels: #Minerals"
b'Toxic cyanobacterial blooms are often observed in freshwaters and may reflect the increased eutrophication of these environments and alterations in climate. Cyanotoxins, such as microcystins (MCs), are an effective threat to many life forms, ranging from plants to humans. Despite the research conducted to date on cyanotoxins, the risks associated to the use of contaminated water in agriculture require further elucidation. To tackle this aim, a research was conducted with the root-vegetable Daucus carota. The specific aims of this work were the following: (i) to evaluate the effects of MC-LR on the plant growth and photosynthesis; (ii) to evaluate the nutritional quality of carrot roots; and (iii) to measure bioaccumulation. To this purpose, young carrots were grown in soil during 1\xc2\xa0month in natural conditions and exposed to Mycrocystis aeruginosa aqueous extracts containing environmentally realistic concentrations of MC-LR (10 and 50 MC-LR \xce\xbcg/L). The results showed that MC-LR may decrease root growth after 28\xc2\xa0days of exposure to 50\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/L and increase photosynthetic efficiency. We also observed changes in mineral and vitamin content in carrots as a result of the exposure to contaminated water. Moreover, MC-LR was detected in carrot roots by ELISA at very low concentration 5.23\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.47\xc2\xa0ng MC eq./g FW. The soil retained 52.7\xc2\xa0% of the toxin potentially available for plants. This result could be attributed to MC-LR adsorption by soil particles or due to microbial degradation of the toxin. We conclude that the prolonged use of MC-LR-contaminated water may affect crop growth, alter the nutritional value of vegetable products, and potentiate contamination. labels: #Minerals'
b'Twelve apparently healthy multiparous parturient Sahiwal cows were allocated into two groups having six cows in each one. Six cows were supplemented with antioxidant mixture (mixture containing Cu, Mn, Cr, Zn, and vitamins A and D3) daily from 21\xc2\xa0days before parturition till the day relative to calving. Whereas, remaining non-supplemented six cows were kept as the control group. Blood samples were obtained five times: at enrolment (21\xc2\xa0days pre-partum), and again at days 0, +7, +14, and +21 relative to calving. In the non-supplemented control group, serum total antioxidant capacity (TAC) was significantly lower at days 0, +7, and +14 as compared to their own day -21 values. Likewise, significantly lower myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities were also exhibited by these cows at days 0 and +7. Conversely, serum malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyl (PC) levels were significantly higher in these cows at days 0, +7, +14, and +21. However, significant alterations in TAC content among the studied sampling days were not recorded in antioxidants supplemented group. Moreover, TAC content and MPO activities of supplemented group were significantly higher at days 0, +7, and +14 when compared with that of the non-supplemented control group. However, MDA and PC contents of supplemented group were significantly lower at days 0, +7, +14, and +21 as compared to that of the non-supplemented control group. In conclusion, periparturient Sahiwal cows experience substantial oxidative and immunological dents which can be potentially ameliorated by prepartal trace mineral and vitamin supplementation. labels: #Minerals'
b'Lead (Pb) contaminated soils are a potential exposure hazard to the public. Amending soils with phosphorus (P) may reduce Pb soil hazards. Soil from Cleveland, OH containing 726\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa014\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0Pb\xc2\xa0kg-1was amended in a laboratory study with bone meal and triple super phosphate (TSP) at 5:1\xc2\xa0P:Pb molar ratios. Soil was acidified, neturalized and re-acidified to encourage Pb phosphate formation. PRSTM-probes were used to evaluate changes in soil solution chemistry. Soil acidification did not decrease in\xc2\xa0vitro bioaccessible (IVBA) Pb using either a pH 1.5, 0.4\xc2\xa0M glycine solution or a pH 2.5 solution with organic acids. PRSTM-probe data found soluble Pb increased 10-fold in acidic conditions compared to circumnetural pH conditions. In acidic conditions (p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa03-4), TSP treated soils increased detected P 10-fold over untreated soils. Bone meal application did not increase PRSTM-probe detected P, indicating there may have been insufficient P to react with Pb. X-ray absorption spectroscopy suggested a 10% increase in pyromorphite formation for the TSP treated soil only. Treatments increased soil electrical conductivity above 16\xc2\xa0mS\xc2\xa0cm-1, potentially causing a new salinity hazard. This study used a novel approach by combining the human ingestion endpoint, PRSTM-probes, and X-ray absorption spectroscopy to evaluate treatment efficacy. PRSTM-probe data indicated potentially excess Ca relative to P across incubation steps that could have competed with Pb for soluble P. More research is needed to characterize soil solutions in Pb contaminated urban soils to identify where P treatments might be effective and when competing cations, such as Ca, Fe, and Zn may limit low rate P applications for treating Pb soils. labels: #Minerals'
b"Despite new treatment methods, upper gastrointestinal bleeding remains challenging. Samen-ista emulsion is a new agent based on traditional medicine with coagulant properties. The efficacy and safety of Samen-ista were assessed in cutaneous and mucosal bleeding animal models. Coagulant properties of Samen-ista were evaluated using mice tail bleeding assay, marginal ear vein and upper gastrointestinal mucosal bleeding times in rabbits. After 7 days, clinical signs, mortality and end-organ (kidney, liver, lung, brain and gastric mucosa) histopathological changes were also examined. Samen-ista dose-dependently decreased mean cutaneous tail (128 vs. 14\xe2\x80\x8as) and marginal ear vein (396 vs. 84\xe2\x80\x8as) bleeding times. Rabbit's upper gastrointestinal bleeding time was also significantly decreased (214 vs. 15.8\xe2\x80\x8as) upon Samen-ista local endoscopic application. Treatment with Samen-ista for 7 days did not cause any mortality, abnormal signs of bleeding, changes in appetite or significant histopathologicl changes. Samen-ista emulsion is well tolerated and highly effective in achieving hemostasis in cutaneous and mucosal bleeding animal models. labels: #Minerals"
b'AOD (argon oxygen decarburization) slag, which is the by-product of the stainless steel refining process, is a recyclable slag because of its high content of calcium and silicon. The leaching toxicity cannot be ignored in the recycling process because the slag contains a certain amount of Cr. In this study, the mineral analysis, batch leaching tests and thermodynamic and kinetic modeling by PHREEQC combined with FactSage software were performed to explore the influence of the dissolution of primary minerals and the precipitation of secondary minerals on the elution of Cr from AOD slag. The results indicated that the main minerals in the original AOD slag are larnite, merwinite, pyroxene and periclase. Cr was dispersed in the mineral phases mentioned above. The simulation of Cr leaching controlled by Cr(III)-hydroxide corresponded better to the batch leaching tests, while the Cr leaching controlled by chromite or double control was underestimated. Increasing the L/S ratio enhances the pH of the leachate and restrains the elution of Cr from the AOD slag. labels: #Minerals'
b'This research focused on the mineral phase transformation under varied ignition conditions with the objective of estimating loss-on-ignition (LOI) parameter in municipal solid waste incineration (MSWI) fly ash residues. LOI is commonly used to measure the volatile species, unburned carbon and moisture in the solid materials. There are criteria for LOI measurement in some research fields, while there is no standard protocol for LOI measurement in MSWI fly ash. Using thermogravimetry technique, the ignition condition candidates were proposed at 440/700/900\xc2\xb0C for 1 and 2h. Based on X-ray diffractometry results, obvious mineral phase transformation occurred as a function of ignition temperature variation rather than ignition time. Until 440\xc2\xb0C, only some minor phases disappeared comparing with the original state. Significant mineral phase transformations of major phases (Ca- and Cl-based minerals) occurred between 440 and 700\xc2\xb0C. The mineral phase transformation and the occurrence of newly-formed phases were determined not only by the ignition condition but also by the content of the co-existing components. Mineral phase components rarely changed when ignition temperature rose from 700 to 900\xc2\xb0C. Consequently, in order to prevent critical damages to the original mineralogical composition of fly ash, the lowest ignition temperature (440\xc2\xb0C) for 2h was suggested as an ideal measurement condition of LOI in MSWI fly ash. labels: #Minerals'
b'The primary objective of this pilot study was to evaluate a new socket preservation technique involving the intentional expansion of the extraction socket buccal plate using a flapless internal corticotomy and biomaterials. A total of 11 patients requiring tooth extraction were enrolled in this study. The aim of this technique was to maintain or improve the hard and soft tissue contour of the ridge after tooth extraction. All surgical sites healed uneventfully. Significant alveolar bone dimension changes were observed in the coronal region of the ridge (-1.4 \xc2\xb1 0.9 mm); however, it was only slightly lower at the medium (-0.35 \xc2\xb1 0.7 mm) and apical levels (-0.3 \xc2\xb1 0.8 mm) (P>.05). The ridge dimensional changes were significantly higher in the buccal aspect than in the palatal aspect in all patients. Vertical bone resorption was not significant. Concerning the soft tissue contour, the horizontal distance between the preoperative and postoperative buccal profiles ranged from 0.94 to -2.88 mm. The proposed ridge preservation technique may help maintain the volume of the healed ridge but cannot completely prevent contour changes after tooth extraction. labels: #Minerals'
b'Zinc oxide nanoparticles (nano-ZnOs) are widely used and possess great potentials in agriculture and biomedicine. It is inevitable for human exposure to these nanoparticles. However, no study had been conducted to investigate the long term effects of nano-ZnOs. This study aimed at investigating effects of nano-ZnOs on development, zinc metabolism and biodistribution of minerals (Zn, Fe, Cu, and Mn) in mice from week 3 to 35. After the characteristics of nano-ZnOs were determined, they were added into the basal diet at 0, 50, 500 and 5000 mg/kg. Results indicated that added 50 and 500 mg/kg nano-ZnOs showed minimal toxicity. However, 5000 mg/kg nano-ZnOs significantly decreased body weight (from week 4 to 16) and increased the relative weights of the pancreas, brain and lung. Added 5000 mg/kg nano-ZnOs significantly increased the serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase activity and zinc content, and significantly enhanced mRNA expression of zinc metabolism-related genes, including metallothionein 1(32.66 folds), metallothionein 2 (31.42 folds), ZIP8 (2.21folds), ZIP14 (2.45 folds), ZnT1 (4.76 folds), ZnT2 (6.19 folds) and ZnT4 (1.82 folds). The biodistribution determination showed that there was a significant accumulation of zinc in the liver, pancreas, kidney, and bones (tibia and fibula) after receiving 5000 mg/kg nano-ZnO diet, while no significant effects on Cu, Fe, and Mn levels, except for liver Fe content and pancreas Mn level. Our results demonstrated that long term exposure to 50 and 500 mg/kg nano-ZnO diets showed minimal toxicity. However, high dose of nano-ZnOs (5000 mg/kg) caused toxicity on development, and altered the zinc metabolism and biodistribution in mice. labels: #Minerals'
b'Interest in the consumption of insects (entomophagy) as an alternative environmentally sustainable source of protein in the diet of humans has recently witnessed a surge. Knowledge of the nutrient composition and, in particular, the bioavailability of minerals from insects is currently sparse. This study evaluated the availability of Fe, Ca, Cu, Mg, Mn, and Zn from four commonly eaten insects and compared these to sirloin beef. Soluble iron from the samples was measured by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES). Iron bioavailability was determined using an in vitro simulated peptic-pancreatic digestion, followed by measurement of ferritin (a surrogate marker for iron absorption) in Caco-2 cells. Cricket and sirloin beef had comparably higher levels of Fe, Ca, and Mn than grasshopper, meal, and buffalo worms. However, iron solubility was significantly higher from the insect samples than from beef. The complementation of whole-wheat flour with insect or beef protein resulted in overall decreases in mineral content and iron solubility in the composite mixtures. Collectively, the data show that grasshopper, cricket, and mealworms contain significantly higher chemically available Ca, Cu, Mg, Mn, and Zn than sirloin. However, buffalo worms and sirloin exhibited higher iron bioavailability comparable to that of FeSO4. Commonly consumed insect species could be excellent sources of bioavailable iron and could provide the platform for an alternative strategy for increased mineral intake in the diets of humans. labels: #Minerals'
b'Importance: Dietary supplements are commonly used by US adults; yet, little is known about recent trends in supplement use.Objective: To report trends in dietary supplement use among US adults.Design, Setting, and Participants: Serial cross-sectional study using nationally representative data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) collected between 1999 and 2012. Participants include noninstitutionalized adults residing in the United States, surveyed over 7 continuous 2-year cycles (sample size per cycle, 4863 to 6213).Exposures: Calendar time, as represented by NHANES cycle.Main Outcomes and Measures: In an in-home interview, participants were queried on use of supplements in the preceding 30 days to estimate the prevalence of use within each NHANES cycle, and trends were evaluated across cycles. Outcomes included use of any supplements; use of multivitamins/multiminerals (MVMM; defined as a product containing \xe2\x89\xa510 vitamins and/or minerals); and use of individual vitamins, minerals, and nonvitamin, nonmineral supplements. Data were analyzed overall and by population subgroup (including age, sex, race/ethnicity, and educational status), and were weighted to be nationally representative.Results: A total of 37\xe2\x80\xaf958 adults were included in the study (weighted mean age, 46.4 years; women, 52.0% ), with an overall response rate of 74%. Overall, the use of supplements remained stable between 1999 and 2012, with 52% of US adults reporting use of any supplements in 2011-2012 (P for trend\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.19). This trend varied by population subgroup. Use of MVMM decreased, with 37% reporting use of MVMM in 1999-2000 and 31% reporting use in 2011-2012 (difference, -5.7% [95% CI, -8.6% to -2.7%], P for trend\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Vitamin D supplementation from sources other than MVMM increased from 5.1% to 19% (difference, 14% [95% CI, 12% to 17%], P for trend\xe2\x80\x89\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001) and use of fish oil supplements increased from 1.3% to 12% (difference, 11% [95% CI, 9.1% to 12%], P for trend\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001) over the study period, whereas use of a number of other supplements decreased.Conclusions and Relevance: Among adults in the United States, overall use of dietary supplements remained stable from 1999-2012, use of MVMM decreased, and trends in use of individual supplements varied and were heterogeneous by population subgroups. labels: #Minerals'
b'Mine stream precipitate collected from Ilkwang mine, Korea, contained high concentrations of arsenic (As), while water collected from the same site had negligible As concentrations, indicating natural attenuation of As occurred in the mine stream. The mechanism of attenuation was explained by comparison of X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) of As(V) co-precipitated with or adsorbed to iron (Fe) minerals in mine precipitates. Arsenic in the mine precipitate was present as As(V) and schwertmannite was the main Fe mineral. Arsenic co-precipitation with schwertmannite was the major mechanism of As removal in the mine stream, followed by As adsorption by goethite and As co-precipitation with ferrihydrite. Schwertmannite and ferrihydrite were formed in acid mine drainage and As was incorporated in their structure during formation. Additionally, schwertmannite and ferrihydrite may transform to goethite with As adsorbed onto the goethite surface. Based on the results of batch experiments of As co-precipitation and adsorption, co-precipitation of As with ferrihydrite and schwertmannite was the most effective As sequestration mechanism in the removal of As(V) from acid mine drainage. labels: #Minerals'
b'Soils around coal mining are important reservoir of hazardous elements (HEs), nanominerals, and ultrafine compounds. This research reports and discusses the soil concentrations of HEs (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb, and Zn) in coal residues of abandoned mines. To assess differences regarding environmental impact and risk assessment between coal abandoned mines from the Santa Catarina state, eighteen coal cleaning rejects with different mineralogical and chemical composition, from eight abandoned mines were collected. Nanominerals and ultra-fine minerals from mining-contaminated areas were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD), field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), and high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HR-TEM), providing new information on the mineralogy and nano-mineralogy of these coal residues. The total contents of 57 elements (HEs, alkali metals, and rare earth elements) were analyzed by Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS). The calculation of NWACs (Normalized Average Weighted Concentration), together with the chemometric analysis by Principal component analysis (PCA) confirmed the variability of the samples regarding their city and their mine of origin. Moreover, the results confirmed the existence of hotspots in mines near urban areas. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVE: This work aims to investigate how the combination of TNF-\xce\xb1 and cyclic stretching affects the expression of gene and protein associated with mineral metabolism in cementoblasts in vitro.DESIGN: Cementoblasts were cyclically stretched using the Flexcell tension system 4000 in the presence of 10 ng/ml TNF-\xce\xb1. Subsequently, the gene and protein expression CAP, Col I, BSP, OPG, RANKL and RUNX2 were detected using RT- PCR and ELISA/Western immunoblotting methods, respectively.RESULTS: Cyclic stretching alone enhanced CAP, Col I, OPG, RANKL and RUNX2 expression in an amplitude manner, while decreased BSP expression. Expression of all these proteins was attenuated in the presence of TNF-\xce\xb1 whether the cells were exposed to cyclic stretching or not. The ratio of RANKL/OPG was increased at any stimulation.CONCLUSION: This results suggest that TNF-\xce\xb1 affected the regulation of gene and protein expression induced by mechanical stimulation in cementoblasts. This may suppress anabolism and promote catabolism of cementum. It suggests that inflammatory cytokine may impair the cementum remodeling under mechanical stimulation. labels: #Minerals'
b'Predicting the water quality at mine sites is of significant importance for developing mines with respect for the environment. Acid mine drainage (AMD) occurs when sulfides are in contact with oxygen and water, and several parameters and mechanisms influence final drainage quality. Galvanic interactions influence the reactivity of sulfide minerals, which act as semi-conductors. These galvanic interactions have been insufficiently studied in the context of AMD generation. In this study, the influence of pyrite on the reactivity of sphalerite and chalcopyrite was investigated. Five blends, comprised of free grains of quartz/pyrite, quartz/chalcopyrite, quartz/sphalerite, quartz/pyrite/chalcopyrite, and quartz/pyrite/sphalerite, were subjected to geochemical testing. Five weathering cells were monitored over a 200-day period during which they were leached twice weekly. Leachates were analyzed for pH, Eh, electrical conductivity, and sulfate and metal concentrations. The results of these analyses showed that galvanic interactions occurred between free sulfide grains. Pyrite was galvanically protected over the full testing period in the quartz/pyrite/chalcopyrite blend, and partially protected in the quartz/pyrite/sphalerite blend. Moreover, the release of Cu from chalcopyrite and Zn, Mn, and Cd from sphalerite was accelerated in the presence of pyrite. This work provides a better understanding of the influence of pyrite on chalcopyrite and sphalerite reactivity by highlighting the galvanic effects. In the future, to improve the reliability of AMD prediction tests, galvanic interactions should be considered in both the prediction of the acid generation potential and the estimation of metal and metalloid release rates. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Understanding human milk composition is critical for setting nutrient recommended intakes (RNIs) for both infants and lactating women. However, nationwide human milk composition remains unavailable in China.METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: Through cross-sectional study, human milk samples from 11 provinces in China were collected and their compositions were analyzed. Nutritional and health status of the lactating women and their infants were evaluated through questionnaire, physical examination and biochemical indicators.RESULTS: A total of 6,481 breast milk samples including colostrum (1,859), transitional milk (1,235) and mature milk (3,387) were collected. Contents of protein, fat, lactose, total solid and energy of more than 4,500 samples were analyzed using a human milk analyzer. About 2,000 samples were randomly selected for 24 mineral analyses. Free B-vitamins including thiamin, riboflavin, pyridoxal, pyridomine, pyridoxamine, nicotinamide, nicotinic acid, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), biotin and pantothenic acid were analyzed in 1,800 samples. Amino acids (~800) and proteins (alpha-lactoalbumin, beta-casein, and lactoferrin) were analyzed. In addition, serum retinol and carotenoids, 25(OH)D, vitamin B-12, folic acid, ferritin and biochemical indicators (n=1,200 to 2,000) were analysed in the lactating women who provided the breast milk. Ongoing work: Fatty acids (C4-C24), fatsoluble vitamins and carotenoids, are on-going analysis.CONCLUSIONS: A regional breast milk compositional database is at an advanced stage of development in China with the intention that it be available on-line. labels: #Minerals'
b'The biogenic iron oxide/hydroxide materials possess useful combination of physicochemical properties and are considered for application in various areas. Their production does not require special investments because these compounds are formed during cultivation of neurophilic iron bacteria. Bacteria from genus Leptothrix develop intensively in the Sphaerotilus-Leptothrix group of bacteria isolation medium and feeding media of Fedorov and Lieske. These media are different in their composition which determined the present study as an attempt to clear up the reasons that define the differences in the composition of the laboratory-obtained biomasses and the natural biomass finds. FTIRS, M\xc3\xb6ssbauer spectroscopy, and XRD were used in the research. Comparative analysis showed that the biomass and control samples contain iron compounds (\xce\xb1-FeOOH, \xce\xb3-FeOOH, \xce\xb2-FeOOH, \xce\xb3-Fe2O3) in different ratios. The biomass samples were enriched in oxyhydroxides of higher dispersion. Organic residuals of bacterial origin, SO4, CO3, and PO4groups were registered in the biogenic materials. labels: #Minerals'
b'These experiments estimated Ca, P, Mg, K, and Na requirements of intact male, castrated male, and female Saanen goats. Two experiments were performed: one to determine the net macromineral requirements for maintenance (Exp. 1) and another to determine net macromineral requirements for growth (Exp. 2). In Exp. 1, 75 goats (26 intact males, 25 castrated males, and 24 females) with initial BW (iBW) of 15.76 \xc2\xb1 0.10 kg were used. These animals were divided in 2 groups: baseline animals and pair-fed animals. Twenty-one goats (8 intact males, 7 castrated males, and 6 females) were slaughtered (16.6 \xc2\xb1 0.96 kg BW) at the beginning of the experiment to be used as the baseline group. The 54 remaining goats (18 intact males, 18 castrated males, and 18 females) were pair fed in 6 blocks of 3 goats per sex. The goats within each block were then randomly allocated to 1 of 3 levels of intake: ad libitum, restricted fed to 75% of the ad libitum intake, and restricted fed to 50% of ad libitum intake. When the animal fed ad libitum reached 31.2 \xc2\xb1 0.58 kg BW, it and the other goats from the same block were slaughtered. The effects of sex and level of intake were evaluated in a split-plot design, where sex was the main plot observation and level of intake was the subplot. Daily net macromineral requirements for maintenance did not differ among the sexes (>0.05), and the average values obtained were 35.4 mg Ca, 24.7 mg P, 2.5 mg Mg, 5.0 mg K, and 3.30 mg Na per kg BW\xe2\x88\x99d. The net requirements for growth in Exp. 2 were obtained using 58 goats (20 intact males, 20 castrated males, and 18 females) with 15.8 \xc2\xb1 0.11 kg iBW, all fed ad libitum. These animals were assigned in a completely randomized design and allocated in 3 slaughter weight groups: 16.6 \xc2\xb1 0.96, 23.1 \xc2\xb1 1.33, and 31.2 \xc2\xb1 0.58 kg BW. The net Ca, P, and Mg requirements for growth were not different among the sexes (>0.05). There was a sex effect on net K and Na requirements for growth (<0.05). The net K requirements for growth (g/kg ADG) of intact males were greater ( = 0.03) and increased approximately 16%, whereas females and castrated males decreased approximately 11% as BW increased from 15 to 30 kg BW. The net Na requirements for growth (g/kg ADG) increased 9.5% for intact males and decreased 22% for females when the goats grew from 15 to 30 kg BW. Sex, therefore, affects net K and Na requirements for growth, but it does not affect net macromineral requirements for maintenance in Saanen goats. labels: #Minerals'
b'Two experiments were conducted to determine the requirement for standardized total tract digestible (STTD) Ca by 11- to 25-kg pigs based on growth performance, bone ash, or Ca and P retention and to determine the effect of dietary Ca on expression of genes related to Ca transport in the jejunum and kidneys. Six diets were formulated to contain 0.36% STTD P and 0.32, 0.40, 0.48, 0.56, 0.64, or 0.72% STTD Ca by including increasing quantities of calcium carbonate in the diets at the expense of cornstarch. Two additional diets contained 0.72% STTD Ca and 0.33% or 0.40% STTD P to determine if 0.36% STTD P had negative effects on the Ca requirement. The same batch of all diets was used in both experiments. In Exp. 1, 256 pigs (11.39 \xc2\xb1 1.21 kg initial BW) were randomly allotted to the 8 diets with 4 pigs per pen and 8 replicate pens per diet in a randomized complete block design. On the last day of the experiment, 1 pig from each pen was euthanized and the right femur and intestine and kidney samples were collected. Results indicated that ADG and G:F started to decline (linear and quadratic,<0.05) at 0.54 and 0.50% STTD Ca, respectively. In contrast, bone ash increased (quadratic,<0.05) as dietary Ca increased and reached a plateau indicating that the requirement for STTD Ca to maximize bone ash was 0.48%. Bone ash, but not ADG or G:F, increased (linear,<0.01) as STTD increased in the diets. The mRNA expression of genes related to transcellular Ca transport decreased (linear,<0.01) in the jejunum and in kidneys (linear and quadratic,<0.01) as dietary Ca increased. In Exp. 2, 80 pigs (13.12 \xc2\xb1 1.79 kg initial BW) were placed in metabolism crates and randomly allotted to the 8 diets with 10 replicate pigs per diet in a randomized complete block design. Fecal and urine samples were collected using the marker-to-marker approach. Results indicated that the requirement for STTD Ca to maximize Ca and P retention (g/d) was 0.60 and 0.49%, respectively. In conclusion, the STTD Ca requirement by 11- to 25-kg pigs to maximize bone ash was 0.48%; however, ADG and G:F declined if more than 0.54 or 0.50% STTD Ca, respectively, was fed, and the minimum concentration of Ca needed to maximize ADG and G:F could not be determined under the conditions of this experiment. Increasing dietary Ca decreased the mRNA expression of several genes related to transcellular Ca transport in the jejunum and the kidneys. labels: #Minerals'
b"An experiment was conducted to determine 1) the length of time necessary for grower pigs to adjust to a new diet and 2) the consistency in excretion of urine and feces in 4 consecutive 5-d collection periods. The total tract excretion and digestibility values for Ca, P, and the essential microminerals were evaluated. The experiment was conducted in 6 replicates as a randomized complete block design. Pigs were fed a pretest diet from 20 to 40 kg BW that met the requirements. At 40 kg, 12 barrows were allotted to stainless-steel metabolism crates, where they continued being fed the pretest diet for a 7-d period for adjustment purposes. Treatment diets were then fed for the following 20-d period in four 5-d intervals. Treatment diets were a corn-soybean meal mixture and contained either 1) reduced Ca and P levels and no added microminerals (LOW) or 2) a diet with elevated Ca and P levels and supplemental microminerals that exceeded the pig's requirements (HIGH). The study collected urine and feces. Markers were added to the ration at the start of each period to distinguish between test intervals. Feces and urine were collected daily, frozen, and composited for each period. Analysis of diets and excrement was conducted using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry technology. In all cases, the excreted minerals and digestibility values were greater (<0.01) for the macrominerals when the HIGH diet was fed, whereas the digestibility values for the microminerals were often lower when the HIGH diet was fed. The macrominerals Ca and P both had consistent urine and fecal values for each of the final 3 collection periods within diet. The micromineral values were generally consistent for each 5-d collection period but varied between periods for several microminerals. These results indicate that a 5-d adjustment period was adequate for pigs to adjust to the treatment diets. A 5-d collection period was adequate for Ca and P, but the micromineral excretion and digestibility values were more variable, and a collection period of 10 d might be warranted. The results also indicated that the innate microminerals had a higher digestibility and bioavailability than thought previously and their digestibility is greater than that of inorganic microminerals. Thus, these results indicate that the innate microminerals should be an important factor in establishing the micromineral requirements for growing pigs. labels: #Minerals"
b'OBJECTIVE: An amelogenin-derived peptide has been shown to promote remineralization of demineralized enamel in an in vitro model of initial caries induced by pH cycling. The present study examines whether the peptide exerts similar effects within the complex oral environment in vivo.DESIGN: Specific pathogen-free Sprague-Dawley rats (n=36) were infected with Streptococcus mutans, given ad libitum access to Diet 2000 and drinking water supplemented with sucrose (10%, w/v), and then randomly divided into three groups treated with 25\xce\xbcM peptide solution, 1g/L NaF or deionized water. Molar teeth were swabbed twice daily with the respective solutions for 24days. Then animals were killed, their jaws were removed and caries lesions were analyzed using the quantitative light-induced fluorescence-digital (QLF-D) technique to measure changes in mineral content. To verify QLF-D results, caries were scored for lesion depth and size using the Keyes method, and analyzed using polarized light microscopy (PLM).RESULTS: Mineral gain was significantly higher in teeth treated with peptide or NaF than in teeth treated with water (p<0.05), based on the QLF-D results (\xce\x94F and \xce\x94Q). Incidence of smooth-surface and sulcal caries based on Keyes scores was similar in rats treated with peptide or NaF, and significantly lower in these groups than in rats treated with water (p<0.05). Lesions on teeth treated with peptide or NaF were shallower, based on PLM. No significant differences were observed between molar enamel caries treated with peptide or NaF.CONCLUSIONS: This amelogenin-derived peptide can promote remineralization in a rat caries model, indicating strong potential for clinical use. labels: #Minerals'
b'Environmental pollution by phosphate in developing countries is growing with extensive and diffuse pollution. Solving these problem with intensive technologies is very expensive. Using natural sorbent such as laterite and sandstone could be a solution. The main objective of the study is to evaluate the P-removal efficiency of these materials under various solution properties. Laterite and sandstone used mainly contain very high levels of finely grained iron and aluminum oxy-hydroxides and diverse dioctahedral clays. Phosphate adsorption tests were carried out using crushed laterite and sandstone. Optimal doses and pH effects on phosphate adsorption were studied with a potassium hydrogeno-phosphate solution of 5\xc2\xa0mg/L at 30\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C. The main results were that the optimal dosage is 15 and 20\xc2\xa0mg/L respectively for laterite and sandstone. The phosphate adsorptions efficiency of laterite and sandstone are pH-dependent, they increase when the pH grows up to the Point of Zero Charge (PZC) and slowly decrease beyond. The adsorption capacities of the materials also increase proportionally with the initial phosphate concentration. The pseudo-second-order successfully described the kinetics of the phosphate adsorption on the two adsorbents. With this model, the adsorption capacity values are obtained, which give an idea of the maximum phosphate uptake that the laterite and sandstone could achieve. The changes on the FTIR spectra of raw materials and phosphate adsorbed material confirm the mechanism of chemisorptions. Considering the above, laterite and sandstone could be used as efficient and cheap adsorbent for the removal of phosphate in aqueous solution. labels: #Minerals'
b'Blood samples of 86 captive panther chameleons (Furcifer pardalis) were collected in January and August from the ventral coccygeal vein in order to establish reference intervals of clinical healthy individuals under similar husbandry conditions for plasma biochemistry and hematology for this species. Significant differences were found in phosphorus, glucose, total protein, albumin, and white blood cell count between males and females in both seasons. Calcium, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase varied in only one season between genders. Significant differences between summer and winter values were present in both genders for uric acid, calcium, phosphorus, glucose, total protein, creatine kinase, and albumin. Additionally, females showed seasonal variations for alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase whereas packed cell volume varied in males. Gravid females had significantly higher body weights and increased values for uric acid, calcium, phosphorus, alanine aminotransferase, total protein, and albumin. Cytomorphologic characteristics of blood cells in stained blood films were evaluated to serve as additional parameters for hematology. labels: #Minerals'
b'Hematology and plasma biochemistry parameters were determined for 34 captive-born California tiger salamanders ( Ambystoma californiense ). The animals were manually restrained for general examination and venipuncture. This is the first comprehensive report of hematology and plasma biochemistry parameters in apparently healthy California tiger salamanders and may serve as a reference for clinical assessment and future study of this species. labels: #Minerals'
b'The paper deals with effects of liming and different doses of municipal sewage sludge (5, 10, and 15\xc2\xa0% of soil mass) on copper speciation in soil. In all samples, pH was determined together with total copper concentration, which was measured with the ICP-AES method. Concentration of copper chemical fractions was determined using the seven-step procedure of Zeien and Br\xc3\xbcmmer. In the soil treated with the highest dose of sludge (15\xc2\xa0%), there was, compared to the control, a twofold increase in the concentration of copper and a threefold increase in the concentration of nitrogen. Copper speciation analysis showed that in the municipal sewage sludge the easily soluble and exchangeable fractions (F1 and F2) constituted only a small share of copper with the highest amount of this metal in the organic (F4) and residual (F7) fractions. In the soil, at the beginning of the experiment, the highest share was in the organic fraction (F4), the residual fraction (F7) but also in the fraction where copper is bound to amorphous iron oxides (F5). After 420\xc2\xa0days, at the end of the experiment, the highest amount of copper was mainly in the organic fraction (F4) and in the fraction with amorphous iron oxides (F5). Due to mineralization of organic matter in the sewage sludge, copper was released into the soil with the share of the residual fraction (F7) decreasing. In this fraction, there was much more copper in limed soil than in non-limed soil. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study evaluated the potentials of fluted pumpkin fruit peels for biogas generation using three different pre-treatment methods (A, B, C) and the optimization of its process parameters. The physic-chemical characteristics of the substrates revealed it to be rich in nutrients and mineral elements needed by microorganisms. Gas chromatography analysis revealed the gas composition to be within the range of 58.5\xc2\xb12.5% Methane and 27\xc2\xb13% Carbon dioxide for all the three digestions. The study revealed that combination of three pre-treatment methods enhanced enormous biogas yield from the digested substrates as against the use of two methods and no pre-treatment experiment. Optimization of the generated biogas data revealed that RSM predicted higher gas yield than ANN, the latter gives higher accuracy and efficiency than the former. It is advocated that fluted pumpkin fruit peels be used for energy generation especially in the locations of its abundance. labels: #Minerals'
b'There is an increasing need for efficient phenotyping and histopathology of a variety of tissues. This phenotyping need is evident with the ambitious projects to disrupt every gene in the mouse genome. The research community needs rapid and inexpensive means to phenotype tissues via histology. Histological analyses of skeletal tissues are often time consuming and semi-quantitative at best, regularly requiring subjective interpretation of slides from trained individuals. Here, we present a cryohistological paradigm for efficient and inexpensive phenotyping of mineralized tissues. First, we present a novel method of tape-stabilized cryosectioning that preserves the morphology of mineralized tissues. These sections are then adhered rigidly to glass slides and imaged repeatedly over several rounds of staining. The resultant images are then aligned either manually or via computer software to yield composite stacks of several layered images. The protocol allows for co-localization of numerous molecular signals to specific cells within a given section. In addition, these fluorescent signals can be quantified objectively via computer software. This protocol overcomes many of the shortcomings associated with histology of mineralized tissues and can serve as a platform for high-throughput, high-content phenotyping of musculoskeletal tissues moving forward. labels: #Minerals'
b'Agricultural soils of semi-arid Mediterranean areas are often subjected to depletion of their chemical, physical, and biological properties. In this context, organic fertilization, in addition to providing nutrients for a longer time in respect to mineral fertilization, improves many other characteristics related to soil fertility. Moreover, the combined use of organic and mineral fertilizers may promote a more sustainable crop production. However, a concern on the long-term use of organic fertilizers arises in relation to the possible accumulation of toxic elements in soil and their transfer to human beings. For this reason, a long-term study on nutrient and toxic element total concentrations and availabilities during fertilization treatments was carried out. In particular, mineral NPK fertilized soils, soils amended with biowaste compost, soils amended with biowaste compost plus mineral nitrogen, and unfertilized soils were analyzed for 11 chemical elements. The results highlighted that temporal variations in total and bioavailable concentrations of both nutrients and toxic elements, occurring also in unfertilized soils, are wider than those related to fertilization treatments. Anyway, soil amendments with biowaste compost, alone or in combination with mineral fertilizers, reduce Cu bioavailability but improve K, Fe, Mn, and Zn availabilities, excluding at the same time a long-term accumulation in soil. Total and bioavailable toxic element concentrations (apart from available Cd) do not vary in relation to fertilization treatments. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate whether p75NTR (p75 neurotrophin receptor) regulates differential mineralization capacity of rEMSCs (rat ectomesenchymal stem cells) and underlying mechanisms associated with Mage-D1 (melanoma-associated antigens-D1).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Immunohistochemical staining of p75NTR in developing tooth germs was performed on E12.5d (embryonic 12.5\xc2\xa0days) and E19.5d (embryonic 19.5\xc2\xa0days). E12.5d EMSCs and E19.5d EMSCs were isolated in the same pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats from embryonic maxillofacial processes and tooth germs. p75NTR small-interfering RNA, p75NTR overexpression plasmid, Mage-D1 small-interfering RNA and recombined rat NGF were used to transfect cells.RESULTS: p75NTR was expressed in epithelial-mesenchymal interaction areas at E12.5d and E19.5d tooth germ development stages. E19.5d EMSCs had higher p75NTR expression levels and differential mineralization capacity but lower levels of cell proliferation. Under induction by mineralized culture medium, the potential of differential mineralization had identical trends in regulation of p75NTR in EMSCs; Mage-D1 did not fluctuate and TrkA was not expressed. Binding of p75NTR and Mage-D1 were detected. Mage-D1 knockdown significantly down-regulated expression of related genes, which NGF could not rescue.CONCLUSION: p75NTR participated in tooth germ development stages and mediated differential mineralization of EMSCs. p75NTR played a critical role in regulating the potential of differential mineralization of EMSCs. Mage-D1 seemed to act as a bridge in the underlying mechanism of effects of p75NTR. labels: #Minerals'
b'The use of organic foods has been increased in the world. Organic fertilizers, like cattle manure, have emerged as an important component of the organic system production. The production, mass, size, and mineral composition of passion fruit pulp were evaluated when treated with a mineral fertilizer (control) (MIN) or cattle manure at a single dose equivalent to potassium fertilizer (ORG) or double dose (2\xc3\x97ORG). The production and the numbers of fruits of plants treated with MIN and 2\xc3\x97ORG was higher than with ORG. The level of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), zinc (Zn), iron (Fe), and copper (Cu) in the fruit pulp was similar with all three fertilizers, but the calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) was higher with ORG and 2\xc3\x97ORG. The number and weight of the fruits of passion fruit treated with 2\xc3\x97ORG were similar to those with MIN fertilizer, but they contained more Ca and Mg. labels: #Minerals'
b"The objective of the present study was: i) to characterize Mediterranean citrus honeys based on conventional physicochemical parameter values, volatile compounds, and mineral content ii) to investigate the potential of above parameters to differentiate citrus honeys according to geographical origin using chemometrics. Thus, 37 citrus honey samples were collected during harvesting periods 2013 and 2014 from Greece, Egypt, Morocco, and Spain. Conventional physicochemical and CIELAB colour parameters were determined using official methods of analysis and the Commission Internationale de l' Eclairage recommendations, respectively. Minerals were determined using ICP-OES and volatiles using SPME-GC/MS. Results showed that honey samples analyzed, met the standard quality criteria set by the EU and were successfully classified according to geographical origin. Correct classification rates were 97.3% using 8 physicochemical parameter values, 86.5% using 15 volatile compound data and 83.8% using 13 minerals. labels: #Minerals"
b'The fate of radiocesium (137Cs) derived from the Fukushima nuclear accident and associated radiation risks are largely dependent on its migration and retention behavior in the litter-soil system of Japanese forest ecosystems. However, this behavior has not been well quantified. We established field lysimeters in a Japanese deciduous broad-leaved forest soon after the Fukushima nuclear accident to continuously monitor the downward transfer of137Cs at three depths: the litter-mineral soil boundary and depths of 5\xc2\xa0cm and 10\xc2\xa0cm in the mineral soil. Observations were conducted at two sites within the forest from May 2011 to May 2015. Results revealed similar temporal and depth-wise variations in137Cs downward fluxes for both sites. The137Cs downward fluxes generally decreased year by year at all depths, indicating that137Cs was rapidly leached from the forest-floor litter layer and was then immobilized in the upper (0-5\xc2\xa0cm) mineral soil layer through its interaction with clay minerals. The137Cs fluxes also showed seasonal variation, which was in accordance with variations in the throughfall and soil temperature at the sites. There was no detectable137Cs flux at a depth of 10\xc2\xa0cm in the mineral soil in the third and fourth years after the accident. The decreased inventory of mobile (or bioavailable)137Cs observed during early stages after deposition indicates that the litter-soil system in the Japanese deciduous forest provides only a temporary source for137Cs recycling in plants. labels: #Minerals'
b'Surroundings of the Legnica Cu smelter (Poland) offer insight into the behavior of Pb and other metal(oid)s in heavily contaminated soils in a relatively simple site, where lithogenic and anthropogenic Pb contributions have uniform Pb isotope composition over the time of smelter activity. Distribution of metal(oid)s decreases asymptotically with depth and below 30\xc2\xa0cm reaches concentrations typical or lower than those of upper continental crust. Usually, such distribution is interpreted as the decrease in anthropogenic Pb contribution with depth. However, calculations based on Pb isotopes indicate that anthropogenic Pb is probably distributed both as Pb-rich particles of slags and fly ashes and Pb-poor soil solutions. Generally, anthropogenic Pb constitutes up to 100\xc2\xa0% of Pb in the uppermost 10\xc2\xa0cm of the soils and comes often from mechanical mixing with slag and fly ash particles as well as their weathering products. On the other hand, lower soil horizon contains anthropogenic Pb in various forms, and at depths below 30\xc2\xa0cm, most of anthropogenic Pb comes from soil solutions and can constitute from 1 to 65\xc2\xa0% of the Pb budget. This is consistent with secondary electron microscope (SEM) analyses of heavy mineral particles showing that, in upper horizons, Pb, Cu, and Zn are contained in various particles emitted from the smelter, which show different stages of weathering. Currently, large portion of these metals may reside in the secondary Fe-hydro-oxides. On the other hand, in deeper soil horizons, anthropogenic Pb is probably dominated by Pb coming from leaching of slag or fly ash particles. Overall, metal(oid) mobility is a dynamic process and is controlled by the soil type (cultivated versus forest) and the composition and the structure of the metal-rich particles emitted from the smelter. High proportions of anthropogenic Pb at depths below 30\xc2\xa0cm in some soil profiles indicate that Pb (and probably other metal(oid)s) can be transported down the soil profile and the present concentration of anthropogenic Pb depends on the availability of binding sites. labels: #Minerals'
b'Concentrations of 11 elements (As, Ba, Cd, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, Se, Sr, and Zn) from the medicinal and edible mushroom Wolfiporia extensa were determined using atomic fluorescence spectrometry (for As and Se) and inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (for Ba, Cd, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, Sr, and Zn). All the samples were collected from 6 regions of Yuxi in Yunnan Province in the southwest of China and were digested with concentrated nitric acid and hydrogen peroxide in a microwave system. The recovery rates of standard addition ranged from 98.24% to 111.8%; the correlation coefficients were all above 0.999. The amounts of As (0.009-0.41 \xce\xbcg \xc2\xb7 g-1 dry weight [dw]), Cd (0-0.266 \xce\xbcg \xc2\xb7 g-1 dw), and Pb (0-2.6 \xce\xbcg \xc2\xb7 g-1 dw) were below the permissible limits in food that are promulgated by the World Health Organization. All the element concentrations determined in this study were proved at the common level. The result of principal component analysis indicated that 5 principal components were extracted from 11 elements, which revealed 74.7% of all variable information. The results of cluster analysis mainly showed the presence of 3 metal groups. labels: #Minerals'
b"Phthalate esters are a group of plasticizers, which are commonly detected in China's soils and surface water. Fenton reactions are naturally occurring and widely applied in the degradation of contaminants. However, limited research was considered the effects of clay minerals on contaminants degradation with OH oxidation. In this study, batch experiments were conducted to investigate the degradation of diethyl phthalate (DEP) in Fenton reactions in the presence of clay minerals, and the effects of clay type, Fe content in clay structure. The results showed the clay adsorption inhibited total degradation of DEP, and Fe content in clay structure played an important role in DEP degradation, including in solution and adsorbed in clay minerals. Clay minerals with less Fe content (<3%) quenched OH radical, while nontronite with Fe content 19.2% improved OH radical generation and accelerated DEP degradation in solution. The degradation of clay-adsorbed DEP was much slower than DEP in solution. Six main products of DEP degradation were identified, including monoethyl phthalate, phthalate acid, hydroxyl diethyl phthalate, etc. This study implied that phthalate ester's degradation would be much slower in natural water than expected in the presence of clay minerals. labels: #Minerals"
b'Environmental mobility of C60fullerene can be significantly affected in the presence of naturally abundant \xce\xb1-FeOOH. However, \xce\xb1-FeOOH vary significantly in sizes, shapes and associated properties that can greatly influence the fate and transport of C60fullerene in environmental media. Therefore, colloidal hetero-association between well crystallized low aspect (LAsp) \xce\xb1-FeOOH and nC60fullerene may differ substantially to weakly crystallized high-aspect (HAsp) counterpart. In contrast to LAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH, inherent crystal defects and surface charge generation in HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH facilitated strong Coulombic attraction and aggregation with fullerene in acidic pH. However, LAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH demonstrated subtle entropic depletion mediated interaction with fullerene prevalent in hard rods. Humic acid (HA) encapsulation of HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH substantially blocked fullerene attachment. Minute enhancement in colloidal stability was detected for HA-coated HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH and fullerene mixture to HA-coated HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH alone. To investigate the interfacial assembly of \xce\xb1-FeOOH with fullerene "in situ" differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopic investigations were employed. This study showed significantly different interface behavior of the binary mixtures of fullerene and HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH NPs, and LAspparticles. On air-water interface, bare HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH displayed liquid crystalline packing. However, addition of fullerene to HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH suspension at pH5 produced closed-loop polygonal and circular ring structures. Head-to-tail alignment of magnetic dipoles as well as fullerene hydrophobicity facilitated such assembly formation. "Ex situ" AFM investigation revealed further the presence of magnetically derived ring structure which asserts that the formed "in situ" ensembles were not transient, hence, may abate fullerene transport through environmental interfaces. Barring hydrophobicity assisted attachment of fullerene to LAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOHs, the absence of any close-packed structures may unlikely abate fullerene transport as envisaged in case of HAsp\xce\xb1-FeOOH. Thus, aspect ratio variation and associated material properties of naturally abundant \xce\xb1-FeOOH may significantly impact fullerene transport through environmental media. labels: #Minerals'
b'Peatlands frequently serve as efficient biogeochemical traps for U. Mechanisms of U immobilization in these organic matter-dominated environments may encompass the precipitation of U-bearing mineral(oid)s and the complexation of U by a vast range of (in)organic surfaces. The objective of this work was to investigate the spatial distribution and molecular binding mechanisms of U in soils of an alpine minerotrophic peatland (pH 4.7-6.6, Eh= -127 to 463 mV) using microfocused X-ray fluorescence spectrometry and bulk and microfocused U L3-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy. The soils contained 2.3-47.4 wt % organic C, 4.1-58.6 g/kg Fe, and up to 335 mg/kg geogenic U. Uranium was found to be heterogeneously distributed at the micrometer scale and enriched as both U(IV) and U(VI) on fibrous and woody plant debris (48 \xc2\xb1 10% U(IV), x\xcc\x85 \xc2\xb1 \xcf\x83, n = 22). Bulk U X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectroscopy revealed that in all samples U(IV) comprised 35-68% of total U (x\xcc\x85 = 50%, n = 15). Shell-fit analyses of bulk U L3-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra showed that U was coordinated to 1.3 \xc2\xb1 0.2 C atoms at a distance of 2.91 \xc2\xb1 0.01 \xc3\x85 (x\xcc\x85 \xc2\xb1 \xcf\x83), which implies the formation of bidentate-mononuclear U(IV/VI) complexes with carboxyl groups. We neither found evidence for U shells at \xe2\x88\xbc3.9 \xc3\x85, indicative of mineral-associated U or multinuclear U(IV) species, nor for a substantial P/Fe coordination of U. Our data indicates that U(IV/VI) complexation by natural organic matter prevents the precipitation of U minerals as well as U complexation by Fe/Mn phases at our field site, and suggests that organically complexed U(IV) is formed via reduction of organic matter-bound U(VI). labels: #Minerals'
b'Nitroaromatic compounds are groundwater pollutants that can be degraded through reactions with Fe(II) adsorbed on iron oxide nanoparticles, although little is known about the evolving reactivity of the minerals with continuous pollutant exposure. In this work, Fe(II)/goethite reactivity toward 4-chloronitrobenzene (4-ClNB) as a function of pH, organic matter presence, and reactant concentrations was explored using sequential-spike batch reactors. Reaction rate constants were smaller with lower pH, introduction of organic matter, and diluted reactant concentrations as compared to a reference condition. Reaction rate constants did not change with the number of 4-ClNB spikes for all reaction conditions. Under all conditions, oxidative goethite growth was demonstrated through X-ray diffraction, magnetic characterization, and transmission electron microscopy. Nonparametric statistics were applied to compare histograms of lengths and widths of goethite nanoparticles as a function of varied solution conditions. The conditions that slowed the reaction also resulted in statistically shorter and wider particles than for the faster reactions. Additionally, added organic matter interfered with particle growth on the favorable {021} faces to a greater extent, with statistically reduced rate of growth on the tip facets and increased rate of growth on the side facets. These data demonstrate that oxidative growth of goethite in aqueous systems is dependent on major groundwater variables, such as pH and the presence of organic matter, which could lead to the evolving reactivity of goethite particles in natural environments. labels: #Minerals'
b"The update of pipeline was quick over the last few years and the plastic pipes were widely used in the drinking water distribution systems (DWDSs), especially in the small-diameter pipes. In this study, the iron adsorptive characteristics and the affecting factors in unplasticized poly(vinyl chloride) (PVC-U) pipe were investigated. Results showed that the average amount of iron in the 10-year-old PVC-U pipe's interior surface was 2.80\xc2\xa0wt% which was almost 187 times larger than that in a new one. Goethite (\xce\xb1-FeOOH) and magnetite (Fe3O4) were the major iron compounds in the scales which covered on the old pipes' interior surface and showed loose and porous images under a scanning electron microscope. Moreover, the influence of the iron concentration on the adsorption amount and rate was discussed. The adsorption amount was significantly influenced by iron concentration, but similar adsorption rate was discovered. Notably, iron was quantitatively adsorbed by PVC-U pipe during the experimental period in accordance with the pseudo second order kinetic model. Meanwhile, regression model and response surface methodology were used to analyze the regular of\xc2\xa0iron adsorption in different concentrations of\xc2\xa0chloride (Cl-), sulfate (SO42-), and hydroxyl (OH-). It can be concluded that Cl-and OH-showed the strong ability of iron adsorption which were larger than SO42-. labels: #Minerals"
b'This experiment was conducted to evaluate the effects of feeding different levels of green forages on feed consumption, nutrient and mineral utilization in Golden pheasants (GP). Twenty-seven female GP (BW 617-635\xe2\x80\x89g) were randomly distributed into three groups of nine birds each in an experiment based on completely randomized design (CRD). Birds in group T1were fed a conventional zoo diet containing 1.4% green forages; however, the diets of the birds in groups T2and T3contained 2.7% and 5.0% of green forages, respectively. Intake of total carotenoids increased with increased level of green forages in the diet. Apparent retention of N, Ca, and Zn was higher in GP laying hens fed diet containing 5.0% green forages as compared to those fed conventional diet containing 1.4% green forages. Results of the present study indicate that inclusion of 5% green forage in the diet of GP would improve the utilization of N, Ca, and Zn without any adverse effect on intake and utilization of other nutrients. Data related to nutrient intake, basal endogenous losses (BEL) and coefficient of retention (COR) of N, Ca, P, Mg, Fe, Cu, Mn, and Zn are novel and may be of use for future research. Zoo Biol. 35:522-532, 2016. \xc2\xa9 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. labels: #Minerals'
b'PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of overlaying titanium mesh with concentrate growth factors(CGF) for rebuilding severe buccal bone defect of anterior maxilla when used in association with dental implantation.METHODS: Twenty patients with severe buccal bone defect of maxilla were selected. A total of 25 dental implants were placed, including 5 cases in bilateral central incisor area and 15 cases in unilateral central incisor area. After implantation, the defects were treated with Bio-oss and Bio-guid in conjunction with fixation of titanium mesh and then CGF technology was used. Two-stage surgery was carried out after 6 months of submerged healing, and permanent prosthesis was used 3 months after temporary restoration. The repairs of the defect were observed at the second stage surgery. The height of margin bone around implants and the thickness of bone at implants lingual side were measured, at the time of the second stage operation, and 3, 6, 12, 18 months after permanent restoration. The differences were analyzed by SPSS 19.0 software package with multi-sample nonparametric test and Fierdman test.RESULTS: At the time of second operation, the bone plate at lingual side was completely reconstructed, and new bone was formed at the top of implants. Clinical measurements showed that the averaged thickness of bone at lingual side was (2.69\xc2\xb10.154) mm at that time. Three, 6, 12, 18 months after restoration, the values were (2.67\xc2\xb10.152) mm, (2.66\xc2\xb10.153) mm, (2.65\xc2\xb10.153) mm, (2.65\xc2\xb10.151) mm, respectively. Implant-abutment junction was used as a base line to assess vertical bone absorption, the marginal bone of implant neck at lingual side was all inferior to the base line, the distance was (0.02\xc2\xb10.048) mm, (0.69\xc2\xb10.085) mm\xef\xbc\x8c(0.87\xc2\xb10.019) mm, (0.87\xc2\xb10.013) mm, respectively. Statistical analysis showed the thickness of bone of labial side decreased significantly over time after permanent restoration (P<0.01). Likewise, the height of marginal bone was also decreased significantly (P<0.01). However, the difference between them at 12 months and 18 months was not statistically significant (P>0.05).CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that bone augmentation at maxilla can be achieved using titanium mesh in conjunction with CGF. The height and thickness of newly formed bone at the implant neck margin will be stabilized after 1 year. This method is worthy of wide clinical application. labels: #Minerals'
b'The purpose of this research was to evaluate the effect of medical stone (MS) on nitrogen conservation and improving the compost quality during the pig manure (PM) composting. Five treatments were designed with different concentrations of MS0%, 2.5%, 5%, 7.5% and 10% (on dry weight of pig manure basis) mixed with initial feed stock and then composted for 60days. The results showed that MS amendment obviously (p<0.05) promoted the organic waste degradation and prolonged the thermophilic phase as well as enhanced the immobilization of heavy metals Cu and Zn. With increasing the amount of MS, the NH3 loss and N2O emission were significantly reduced by 27.9-48.8% and by 46.6-85.3%, respectively. Meanwhile, the MS amendment could reduce the NO2(-)-N formation and increase the NO3(-)-N content. Finally our results suggested that 10%MS addition could significantly reduce the nitrogen conservation as well as improve the quality of compost. labels: #Minerals'
b'The NpVretention by siderite, an FeIIcarbonate mineral with relevance for the near-field of high-level radioactive waste repositories, was investigated under anoxic conditions. Batch sorption experiments show that siderite has a high affinity for aqueous NpVO2+across pH 7 to 13 as expressed by solid-water distribution coefficients, log Rd,>5, similar to the log Rddetermined for the (solely) tetravalent actinide Th on calcite, suggesting reduction of NpVto NpIVby siderite. Np L3-edge X-ray absorption near edge (XANES) spectroscopy conducted in a pH range typical for siderite-containing host rocks (7-8), confirmed the tetravalent Np oxidation state. Extended X-ray absorption fine-structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy revealed a local structure in line with NpO2-like nanoparticles with diameter<1 nm, a result further corroborated by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM). The low solubility of these NpO2-like nanoparticles (\xe2\x88\xbc10-9M), along with their negligible surface charge at neutral pH conditions which favors particle aggregation, suggest an efficient retention of Np in the near-field of radioactive waste repositories. When NpVwas added to ferrous carbonate solution, the subsequent precipitation of siderite did not lead to a structural incorporation of NpIVby siderite, but caused precipitation of a NpIVpentacarbonate phase. labels: #Minerals'
b'The presence of kaolinite, montmorillonite, and illite in packed quartz sand inhibited the transport of graphene oxide to different degrees. Transport inhibition was exerted mainly by the presence of positively charged sites on clay edges (which served as favorable deposition sites), whereas the effects on the overall particle-collector interaction energy and flow path were small. Kaolinite exhibited the most significant transport-inhibition effects because of its high percentage of edge area. Environ Toxicol Chem 2017;36:655-660. \xc2\xa9 2016 SETAC. labels: #Minerals'
b'Heavy metal uptake and accumulation behavior in dietary vegetables irrigated with sewage waters is an important issue worldwide. The main objective of this study was to examine and compare the physiological and growth responses of leafy vegetables irrigated with sewage water. A pot experiment was conducted in a wire house with three leafy vegetables, coriander (Coriandrum sativum), mint (Mentha arvensis), and fenugreek (Trigonella foenum), grown under ambient conditions. Plants were irrigated with different concentrations, 0, 50 (T 1), and 100\xc2\xa0% (T 2), of sewage water. After harvesting, morphological and physiological parameters of plants were measured. Heavy metal (Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn) concentrations in the sewage water were found much higher than safer limits. The results revealed that the highest plant biomass and lowest metal contents were observed in control treatments in all studied vegetables. The biomass of all the vegetables were negatively affected when irrigated with sewage water. In T 2, coriander accumulated maximum Cd (\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g(-1) DW) in shoots (4.97) as compared to other vegetables. The maximum Pb and Cu concentrations were accumulated in mint roots (44 and 3.9, respectively) as compared to coriander and fenugreek. Zinc was accumulated in the sequence of leaves\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0roots\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0shoots under polluted water irrigation. The concentrations of potassium increased in leaves, shoots, and roots in all vegetables, while phosphorous concentrations varied with species and plant parts with increasing sewage water concentration. It was found that the leafy vegetables grown with sewage water irrigation may cause severe human health problems. labels: #Minerals'
b'Studies on coal-derived nanoparticles as well as nano-minerals are important in the context of the human health and the environment. The coal combustion-generated aerosols also affect human health and environmental quality aspects in any coal-fired station. In this study, the feed coals and their combustion-generated aerosols from coal-fired boilers of two tea industry facilities were investigated for the presence of nanoparticles/nano minerals, fullerene aggregates, and potentially hazardous elements (PHEs). The samples were characterized by using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS), High resolution-transmission electron microscopy/energy dispersive spectroscopy (HR-TEM/EDS) and Ultra Violet-visible spectroscopy (UV-Vis) to know their extent of environmental risks to the human health when present in coals and aerosols. The feed coals contain mainly clay minerals, whilst glass fragments, spinel, quartz, and other minerals occur in lesser quantities. The PM samples contain potentially hazardous elements (PHEs) like As, Pb, Cd and Hg. Enrichment factor of the trace elements in particulate matters (PMs) was calculated to determine their sources. The aerosol samples were also found to contain nanomaterials and ultrafine particles. The fullerene aggregates along with potentially hazardous elements were also detected in the aerosol samples. The cytotoxicity studies on the coal combustion-generated PM samples show their potential risk to the human health. This detailed investigation on the inter-relationship between the feed coals and their aerosol chemistry will be useful for understanding the extent of environmental hazards and related human health risk. labels: #Minerals'
b'A novel halophilic and metal-reducing bacterium, Orenia metallireducens strain Z6, was isolated from briny groundwater extracted from a 2.02 km-deep borehole in the Illinois Basin, IL. This organism shared 96% 16S rRNA gene similarity with Orenia marismortui but demonstrated physiological properties previously unknown for this genus. In addition to exhibiting a fermentative metabolism typical of the genus Orenia, strain Z6 reduces various metal oxides [Fe(III), Mn(IV), Co(III), and Cr(VI)], using H2as the electron donor. Strain Z6 actively reduced ferrihydrite over broad ranges of pH (6 to 9.6), salinity (0.4 to 3.5 M NaCl), and temperature (20 to 60\xc2\xb0C). At pH 6.5, strain Z6 also reduced more crystalline iron oxides, such as lepidocrocite (\xce\xb3-FeOOH), goethite (\xce\xb1-FeOOH), and hematite (\xce\xb1-Fe2O3). Analysis of X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) following Fe(III) reduction by strain Z6 revealed spectra from ferrous secondary mineral phases consistent with the precipitation of vivianite [Fe3(PO4)2] and siderite (FeCO3). The draft genome assembled for strain Z6 is 3.47 Mb in size and contains 3,269 protein-coding genes. Unlike the well-understood iron-reducing Shewanella and Geobacter species, this organism lacks the c-type cytochromes for typical Fe(III) reduction. Strain Z6 represents the first bacterial species in the genus Orenia (order Halanaerobiales) reported to reduce ferric iron minerals and other metal oxides. This microbe expands both the phylogenetic and physiological scopes of iron-reducing microorganisms known to inhabit the deep subsurface and suggests new mechanisms for microbial iron reduction. These distinctions from other Orenia spp. support the designation of strain Z6 as a new species, Orenia metallireducens sp. nov.IMPORTANCE: A novel iron-reducing species, Orenia metallireducens sp. nov., strain Z6, was isolated from groundwater collected from a geological formation located 2.02 km below land surface in the Illinois Basin, USA. Phylogenetic, physiologic, and genomic analyses of strain Z6 found it to have unique properties for iron reducers, including (i) active microbial iron-reducing capacity under broad ranges of temperatures (20 to 60\xc2\xb0C), pHs (6 to 9.6), and salinities (0.4 to 3.5 M NaCl), (ii) lack of c-type cytochromes typically affiliated with iron reduction in Geobacter and Shewanella species, and (iii) being the only member of the Halanaerobiales capable of reducing crystalline goethite and hematite. This study expands the scope of phylogenetic affiliations, metabolic capacities, and catalytic mechanisms for iron-reducing microbes. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aim of this case report was to evaluate the histologic and radiographic new bone formation following maxillary sinus reentry surgery without a bone graft. A 61-year-old woman was referred with a failure of a sinus augmentation procedure. A reentry procedure was performed to retreat the sinus complication. The procedure involved removal of the bone graft plus debridement of the sinus. No additional bone graft material was used. A cone beam computed tomography scan was taken 6 months following the reentry procedure. During implant placement surgery, a core biopsy specimen was retrieved, stored, and prepared to obtain thin ground undecalcified sections. The histologic and radiographic analysis showed formation of new bone at the time of implant placement. At 18 months following implant placement, successful evidence of integration was determined by implant stability and radiographs. Space maintained by the previously elevated sinus membrane at the time of sinus reentry was sufficient to induce formation of bone without regrafting. However, more cases involving survival of implants placed in augmented sinuses without the use of bone grafts at the time of reentry are needed to confirm the results of this case report study. labels: #Minerals'
b'The effect of diet supplemented with Shilajit, a multi-component natural mineral substance on the antioxidant activity, immune response, and disease resistance in freshwater prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergii (de Man) against Aeromonas hydrophila is reported. The total hemocyte count (THC) and phagocytic activity significantly increased with 2\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) supplemented diet on first week and with other enriched diets on weeks 2 and 4. The respiratory burst (RB) activity and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity were significantly increased with 2\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) supplemented diet on weeks 1 and 2 whereas 2 and 4\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) diets on week 4. The phenoloxidase (PO) activity increased significantly with 2\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) diet only on second week and with other enriched diets only on fourth week. The superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity increased significantly with any enriched diet during the experimental period except with 6\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) diets on first week. However, the glutathione reductase (GR) activity was enhanced significantly only with 2\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) enriched diets on weeks 2 and 4. The cumulative mortality of the prawn fed with 2 and 4\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) enriched diets was 10% and 15% whereas with 6\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) diet the mortality was 20%. The results suggest that diet enriched with Shilajit at 2\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) or 4\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1) positively enhances the antioxidant activity, immunity, and disease resistance in M.\xc2\xa0rosenbergii against A.\xc2\xa0hydrophila. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVES: This study compares peri-implant crevicular fluid (PICF) prostaglandin E2(PGE2) levels, clinical parameters and implant stability quotient (ISQ) values around implants placed in augmented extraction sockets.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The sockets (24 in total) were randomly augmented using either EMD or Bio-Oss Collagen. Implant placements were performed after three months of healing. ISQ readings were evaluated at three points: at the time of surgery, at the first month and at the third month. PICF was collected for PGE2evaluation after the first and the third months of implant surgery.RESULTS: After the first month, a higher level of PICF PGE2was observed in the EMD group than in the Bio-Oss Collagen group, and this increase was of statistical significance; however, at the third month there was no statistically significant difference in PICF PGE2levels between the two groups. For implants placed in EMD sites, ISQ values were statistically higher at the third month than at the first month, while no significant differences in ISQ value were detected between the first and third months in Bio-Oss Collagen sites.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this research suggest that both EMD and Bio-Oss Collagen are effective treatment modalities for stimulating the formation of new bone at extraction sites prior to implant surgery. labels: #Minerals'
b'UNLABELLED: A biomimetic strategy was developed in order to prepare organically modified hydroxyapatite (ormoHAP) with spherical shape. The technical approach is based on electric field-assisted migration of calcium ions and phosphate ions into a hydrogel composed of carboxymethylated gelatin. The electric field as well as the carboxymethylation using glucuronic acid (GlcA) significantly accelerates the mineralization process, which makes the process feasible for lab scale production of ormoHAP spheres and probably beyond. A further process was developed for gentle separation of the ormoHAP spheres from the gelatin gel without compromising the morphology of the mineral. The term ormoHAP was chosen since morphological analyses using electron microscopy (SEM, TEM) and element analysis (EDX, FT-IR, XRD) confirmed that carboxymethylated gelatin molecules use to act as organic templates for the formation of nanocrystalline HAP. The hydroxyapatite (HAP) crystals self-organize to form hollow spheres with diameters ranging from 100 to 500nm. The combination of the biocompatible chemical composition and the unique structure of the nanocomposites is considered to be a useful basis for future applications in functionalized degradable biomaterials.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: A novel bioinspired mineralization process was developed based on electric field-assisted migration of calcium and phosphate ions into biochemically carboxymethylated gelatin acting as organic template. Advantages over conventional hydroxyapatite include particle size distribution and homogeneity as well as achievable mechanical properties of relevant composites. Moreover, specifically developed calcium ion or phosphate ion release during degradation can be useful to adjust the fate of bone cells in order to manipulate remodeling processes. The hollow structure of the spheres can be useful for embedding drugs in the core, encapsulated by the highly mineralized outer shell. In this way, controlled drug release could be achieved, which enables advanced strategies for threating bone-related diseases, e.g. osteoporosis and multiple myeloma. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Heavy metals are considered to be the most important pollutants in the contamination of soils; they adversely affect plant growth and development and cause some physiological and molecular changes. The contamination of agricultural soils by heavy metals has changed the mineral element content of vegetables. Plant metallothioneins (MTs) are thought to have the functional role in heavy metal homeostasis, and they are used as the biomarkers for evaluating environmental pollution. We aimed to evaluate the expression of MT isoforms (MT1, 2, 3 and 4) and some mineral element composition of tomato roots, leaves and fruits exposed to copper and lead.RESULTS: Heavy metal applications increased MT1 and MT2 gene expressions compared to the control in the tissues of tomato. The highest level of MT1 and MT2 transcripts was found in roots and leaves, respectively. The expression of MT3 is induced in roots, leaves and fruits except for Pb treatment in roots. MT4 expression increased in fruits; however, other tissues did not show a clear change. Our results indicated that Cu content was higher than Pb in all tissues of tomato. The lower doses of Cu (10 ppm) increased the content of Mg, Fe, Ca and Mn in roots. Pb generally increased the level of minerals in leaves and fruits, but it decreased Mg, Mn and Fe contents in roots.CONCLUSION: Both heavy metals not only moved to aerial parts but also caused alterations to mineral element levels. These results show that MT transcripts are regulated by Cu and Pb, and expression pattern changes to MT isoforms and tissue types. \xc2\xa9 2016 Society of Chemical Industry. labels: #Minerals'
b'Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) are an increasingly important family of advanced materials based on open, nanometer-scale metal-organic architectures, whose design and synthesis are based on the directed assembly of carefully designed subunits. We now demonstrate an unexpected link between mineralogy and MOF chemistry by discovering that the rare organic minerals stepanovite and zhemchuzhnikovite exhibit structures found in well-established magnetic and proton-conducting metal oxalate MOFs. Structures of stepanovite and zhemchuzhnikovite, exhibiting almost nanometer-wide and guest-filled apertures and channels, respectively, change the perspective of MOFs as exclusively artificial materials and represent, so far, unique examples of open framework architectures in organic minerals. labels: #Minerals'
b'Removing inorganics from non-metallic fraction (NMF) of waste printed circuit boards (WPCBs) is an effective mean to improve its usability. The effect of size fraction on the triboelectric separation of NMF of WPCBs was investigated in a lab triboelectric separation system and the separation process was optimized in this paper. The elements distribution in raw NMF collected from typical WPCBs recycling plant and each size fraction obtained by sieving were analyzed by X-ray fluorescence (XRF). The results show that the main inorganic elements in NMF are P, Ba, Mn, Sb, Ti, Pb, Zn, Sn, Mg, Fe, Ca, Cu, Al and Si. The inorganic content of each size fraction increased with the size decreasing. The metal elements are mainly distributed in -0.2mm size fraction, and concentrated in middle product of triboelectric separation. The loss on ignition (LOI) of positive product and negative product is higher than that of the middle product for the -0.355mm size fraction, while the LOI presents gradually increasing trend from negative to positive plate for the +0.355mm size fraction. Based on the separation results and mineralogical characterizations of each size fraction of NMF, the pretreatment process including several mineral processing operations was added before triboelectric separation and better separation result was obtained. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: The prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) is increasing globally. It is associated with a significant risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The relationship between adherence to several different dietary patterns and the presence of MetS was explored in an Iranian population sample of 5764 subjects.RESULTS: We observed that the prevalence of MetS was 13% and 18% in men and women, respectively. There were three main dietary patterns: the first pattern was characterized by protein, carbohydrate, starch, glucose, fructose, sucrose, maltose, dietary fibre, potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, iron, zinc, manganese, thiamine, riboflavin, carotene, vitamin c and lactose; second representative of fat, saturated fat, monounsaturated fat, polyunsaturated fat, cholesterol, sodium, calcium, zinc, phosphorus, iodine, vitamin D, chloride, betaine, niacin; third consisting of copper, selenium, vitamin A, riboflavin, vitamin B12. In this dietary pattern, individuals in first quintile had a higher consumption of total fat, saturated fatty acid, monounsaturated fatty acid, polyunsaturated fatty acid, cholesterol and vitamin A. In the second pattern, individuals in the fifth quintile ate less carbohydrate, dietary fibre, glucose, Fructose, potassium compared to first quintile. We found that individuals in the first quintile in pattern 3 had higher intakes of protein, zinc and calcium compared to other quintiles.CONCLUSIONS: We have found that a nutrient pattern which mostly characterized by dietary protein, carbohydrate, starch, glucose, fructose, sucrose, maltose was associated with a higher risk of MetS in both genders, while a pattern which was represent of copper, selenium, Vitamin A, riboflavin, vitamin B12 was associated with greater odds of Mets, in women. labels: #Minerals'
b'Arsenic (As) is commonly associated with Cu ore minerals, with the resultant risk that As can be released offsite from mine tailings. We used synchrotron-based fluorescence X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) imaging to provide in situ, laterally-resolved speciation of As within tailings which differed in magnetite content (5-12%) and organic matter content (0-5%). Although the total As content was lower in tailings with low magnetite (LM), the soluble (pore water) As was actually 7-times higher in LM tailings than in high magnetite (HM) tailings. Additionally, amendment with 5% sugarcane mulch residues (SMR) (for revegetation) further increased soluble As due to the dissolution and oxidation of arsenopyrite or orpiment. Indeed, in HM tailings, arsenopyrite and orpiment initially accounted for 88% of the total As, which decreased to 48% upon the addition of SMR - this being associated with an increase in AsV-ferrihydrite from 12% to 52%. In LM tailings, the pattern of As distribution and speciation was similar, with As as AsV-ferrihydrite increasing from 57% to 75% upon the addition of SMR. These findings indicate that changes in ore processing technology, such as the recovery of magnetite could have significant environmental consequences regarding the As mobilisation and transformation in mine tailings. labels: #Minerals'
b'Milk minerals and coagulation properties are important for both consumers and processors, and they can aid in increasing milk added value. However, large-scale monitoring of these traits is hampered by expensive and time-consuming reference analyses. The objective of the present study was to develop prediction models for major mineral contents (Ca, K, Mg, Na, and P) and milk coagulation properties (MCP: rennet coagulation time, curd-firming time, and curd firmness) using mid-infrared spectroscopy. Individual milk samples (n=923) of Holstein-Friesian, Brown Swiss, Alpine Grey, and Simmental cows were collected from single-breed herds between January and December 2014. Reference analysis for the determination of both mineral contents and MCP was undertaken with standardized methods. For each milk sample, the mid-infrared spectrum in the range from 900 to 5,000cm(-1) was stored. Prediction models were calibrated using partial least squares regression coupled with a wavenumber selection technique called uninformative variable elimination, to improve model accuracy, and validated both internally and externally. The average reduction of wavenumbers used in partial least squares regression was 80%, which was accompanied by an average increment of 20% of the explained variance in external validation. The proportion of explained variance in external validation was about 70% for P, K, Ca, and Mg, and it was lower (40%) for Na. Milk coagulation properties prediction models explained between 54% (rennet coagulation time) and 56% (curd-firming time) of the total variance in external validation. The ratio of standard deviation of each trait to the respective root mean square error of prediction, which is an indicator of the predictive ability of an equation, suggested that the developed models might be effective for screening and collection of milk minerals and coagulation properties at the population level. Although prediction equations were not accurate enough to be proposed for analytic purposes, mid-infrared spectroscopy predictions could be evaluated as phenotypic information to genetically improve milk minerals and MCP on a large scale. labels: #Minerals'
b'Iron (Fe) bioavailability, as determined by its sources, sinks, solubility and speciation, places severe environmental constraints on microorganisms in aquatic environments. Cyanobacteria are a widespread group of aquatic, photosynthetic microorganisms with especially high iron requirements. While iron exists predominantly in particulate form, little is known about its bioavailability to cyanobacteria. Some cyanobacteria secrete iron solubilizing ligands called siderophores, yet many environmentally relevant strains do not have this ability. This work explores the bioavailability of amorphous synthetic Fe-oxides (ferrihydrite) to the non-siderophore producing, unicellular cyanobacterium, Synechocystis sp PCC 6803. Iron uptake assays with55ferrihydrite established dissolution as a critical prerequisite for iron transport. Dissolution assays with the iron binding ligand, desferrioxamine B, demonstrated that Synechocystis 6803 enhances ferrihydrite dissolution, exerting siderophore-independent biological influence on ferrihydrite bioavailability. Dissolution mechanisms were studied using a range of experimental conditions; both cell-particle physical proximity and cellular electron flow were shown to be important determinants of bio-dissolution by Synechocystis 6803. Finally, the effects of ferrihydrite stability on bio-dissolution rates and cell physiology were measured, integrating biological and chemical aspects of ferrihydrite bioavailability. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that Synechocystis 6803 actively dissolves ferrihydrite, highlighting a significant biological component to mineral phase iron bioavailability in aquatic environments. labels: #Minerals'
b'An actinobacterial strain VL-RK_09 having potential antimicrobial activities was isolated from a mango orchard in Krishna District, Andhra Pradesh (India) and was identified as Arthrobacter kerguelensis. The strain A. kerguelensis VL-RK_09 exhibited a broad spectrum of in vitro antimicrobial activity against bacteria and fungi. Production of bioactive metabolites by the strain was the highest in modified yeast extract malt extract dextrose broth, as compared to other media tested. Lactose (1%) and peptone (0.5%) were found to be the most suitable carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively, for the optimum production of the bioactive metabolites. The maximum production of the bioactive metabolites was detected in the culture medium with an initial pH of 7, in which the strain was incubated for five days at 30\xc2\xb0C under shaking conditions. Screening of secondary metabolites obtained from the culture broth led to the isolation of a compound active against a wide variety of Gram-positive and negative bacteria and fungi. The structure of the first active fraction was elucidated using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, electrospray ionization mass spectrometry,1H and13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The compound was identified as S,S-dipropyl carbonodithioate. This study is the first report of the occurrence of this compound in the genus Arthrobacter. labels: #Minerals'
b'Soil salinization is an increasing problem for many areas throughout the world that renders prohibitive vegetables and crop production in general. In the present study, Cichorium spinosum L. plants were grown under saline conditions in order to evaluate chemical composition and bioactive compounds content of their leaves. Salinity increase resulted in significant changes of macro and micro-nutrients content (nutritional value, sugars, fatty acids, minerals, ascorbic acid and tocopherols), whereas the concentration of phenolic compounds was not significantly affected. Chicoric and 5-O-caffeoylquinic acid were the most abundant phenolic acids. In contrast, antioxidant activity and mineral composition were beneficially affected by mid-to-high and high salinity levels. In conclusion, C. spinosum can be cultivated under saline conditions without compromising the quality of the final product, especially in semi-arid areas where irrigation water is scarce and/or of low quality due to high content of NaCl (coastal areas or areas where underground water is saline). labels: #Minerals'
b"In this study, Kodo millet grains were phytochemically investigated for their nutritional and antioxidant potential for their use as functional foods. Methanolic extracts of grains showed higher phenolic content and antioxidant activity. TLC studies of the extracted polyphenols from kodo millet showed the predominant presence of ferulic acid and cinnamic acid in the millet. Further quantification of these polyphenols was done by using HPLC, analysing ferulic acid and cinnamic acid. Antagonistic spectrum of the polyphenols extracted showed inhibition against four bacterial test indicators viz. Staphylococcus aureus, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Bacillus cereus and Enterococcus faecalis proving its antimicrobial action. The grains of kodo millet grains taken under study were found to posses' high protein, carbohydrates, minerals, crude fibers, polyphenols and antioxidants thus can be used as a good source of nutrition with additional health benefits. labels: #Minerals"
b'Sorghum is a source of several minerals whose content may vary depending on the genotype and the production environment. The objective of this study was to screen sorghum genotypes for mineral content and to investigate the effect of water stress on it. A large variability was observed in the mineral content of 100 sorghum genotypes grown in environments without (WoWS) and with water stress (WthWS). The water stress decreased Mn, P, Mg and S contents in 100, 96, 93 and 56% of genotypes, respectively. The genotypes and other factors seemed to have more impact than water stress on K, Ca, Cu, Fe and Zn levels. In 100 sorghum genotypes, 2 were classified as excellent sources of Fe and 25 of Zn, in both environments. The best two genotypes to Fe content were SC21 and SC655 and to Zn were SC320 and SHAN-QUI-RED which showed great potential for use in biofortification. labels: #Minerals'
b'The effects of germination and high hydrostatic pressure (HHP) processing on the in vitro bioaccessibility of mineral elements, amino acids (AAs), antioxidants and starch in brown rice (BR) were investigated. Germinated BR (GBR) was obtained by incubating at 37\xc2\xb0C for 36h and then subjected to HHP treatments at 0.1, 100, 300 and 500MPa for 10min. The in vitro bioaccessibility of calcium and copper was increased by 12.59-52.17% and 2.87-23.06% after HHP, respectively, but bioaccessible iron was decreased. In addition, HHP significantly improved individual AAs, particularly indispensable AAs and gama-aminobutyric acid, as well as bioaccessible total antioxidant activities and starch resistance to enzymatic hydrolysis. However, germination greatly increased starch digestibility. Atomic force microscopy characterization suggested an obvious structural change in bran fraction at pressures above 300MPa. These results can help to understand the effects of germination and HHP technologies on nutrients bioaccessibility and develop appropriate processing conditions. labels: #Minerals'
b'Arthrospira (Spirulina) platensis is a blue-green alga, rich with bioactive components and nutrients. To evaluate effect of gamma irradiation, A. platensis was exposed to different doses of 0.0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0 and 2.5kGy. The data showed that the phenolic and proline contents significantly increased with the increase of gamma irradiation doses up to 2.0kGy, above which a reduction was observed. The soluble proteins and malondialdehyde (MDA) contents were stimulated by all tested irradiation doses. Furthermore, the vitamins (A, K and B group) and mineral contents (N, P, Na, K, Ca, Mg and Fe) were stimulated by the irradiation doses compared with the control. The activities of some N-assimilating and antioxidant enzymes were significantly increased with the irradiation doses up to 2.0kGy. This study suggests the possible use of gamma irradiation as a stimulatory agent to raise the nutritive value and antioxidant activity of A. platensis. labels: #Minerals'
b'This paper, prepared by the EFLM Task and Finish Group on Allocation of laboratory tests to different models for performance specifications (TFG-DM), is dealing with criteria for allocating measurands to the different models for analytical performance specifications (APS) recognized in the 1st EFLM Strategic Conference Consensus Statement. Model 1, based on the effect of APS on clinical outcome, is the model of choice for measurands that have a central role in the decision-making of a specific disease or clinical situation and where cut-off/decision limits are established for either diagnosing, screening or monitoring. Total cholesterol, glucose, HbA1c, serum albumin and cardiac troponins represent practical examples. Model 2 is based on components of biological variation and should be applied to measurands that do not have a central role in a specific disease or clinical situation, but where the concentration of the measurand is in a steady state. This is best achieved for measurands under strict homeostatic control in order to preserve their concentrations in the body fluid of interest, but it can also be applied to other measurands that are in a steady state in biological fluids. In this case, it is expected that the "noise" produced by the measurement procedure will not significantly alter the signal provided by the concentration of the measurand. This model especially applies to electrolytes and minerals in blood plasma (sodium, potassium, chloride, bicarbonate, calcium, magnesium, inorganic phosphate) and to creatinine, cystatin C, uric acid and total protein in plasma. Model 3, based on state-of-the-art of the measurement, should be used for all the measurands that cannot be included in models 1 or 2. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Dietary supplement (DS) use is common among U.S. Army personnel to purportedly improve health, provide energy, and increase strength. However, a comprehensive analysis of DS use among U.S. Air Force (USAF) personnel has not been conducted using the same survey instrument, which would permit direct comparisons to DS use by Army personnel.METHODS: A standardized questionnaire was used to assess DS use, demographic factors, and reasons for use of DS by USAF personnel (N = 1750). Logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, and rank were used to determine relationships among categories of DS (multivitamin and multimineral, individual vitamins and minerals, protein/amino acid supplements, combination products, herbal supplements, purported steroid analogs, and other) and demographic factors. Findings were compared to reports from other military services and civilian populations.RESULTS: DS were used by 68% of USAF personnel: 35% used 1-2 DS \xe2\x89\xa5 1 time/wk, 13% 3-4 DS \xe2\x89\xa5 1 time/wk, and 20% \xe2\x89\xa5 5 DS \xe2\x89\xa5 1 time/wk. There were 45% of personnel who used a multivitamin and mineral, 33% protein supplements, 22% individual vitamins/minerals, 22% combination products, and 7% herbals. Logistic regression demonstrated aerobic exercise duration and strength training were associated with increased DS use. Individuals who previously deployed were more likely to use DS.CONCLUSIONS: Like Army personnel, college students and athletes, USAF personnel use more DS than the general population and are more likely to use purported performance enhancing DS, such as protein supplements, and concurrently consume multiple DS. Austin KG, Price LL, McGraw SM, Leahy G, Lieberman HR. Demographic, lifestyle factors, and reasons for use of dietary supplements by Air Force personnel. Aerosp Med Hum Perform. 2016; 87(7):628-637. labels: #Minerals'
b'A study to investigate the dynamical characteristics of particle matter emissions in a working open yard is conducted in Caofeidian Port of Hebei Province, China. The average diurnal concentrations of the total suspended particulate (TSP) matter and respirable particulate matter (PM10and PM5) are monitored during the field measurement campaign. Sampling is performed at a regular interval at 8 monitoring stations in the yard with normal industrial activities. The average TSP, PM10and PM5concentrations range from 285 to 568, 198 to 423 and 189 to 330 \xce\xbcg.m-3 in the yard, respectively. The linear regression correlation coefficient of TSP/PM10and TSP/PM5is 0.95\xc2\xb10.01 and 0.88\xc2\xb10.02, respectively.By using the Spearman correlation method, the wind speed and relative humidity are both weakly correlated with the PM10and PM5concentrations according to the measurements. In addition, industrial operation activities, such as vehicular traffic in the yard and the loading time of stackers, are significantly positively correlated with the PM concentration. Using the multivariate regression method, the main parameters influencing the TSP concentration variations are integratedly analysed. The traffic volume is found to be a significant predictor of TSP concentration variation, with the smallest P value (P<0.05).To understand the dynamical characteristics of particle emissions in the yard, the emissions from the truck transports, that is, from unpaved haul roads and from the loading process, are established. Then, the dynamical emission factor (EFD) based on the industrial activities in the yard is proposed. The dynamical emissions average 5.25x105kg.year-1and EFDis evaluated to be 0.29 kg.(ton.day)-1during the measurement period. These outcomes have meaningful implications not only for understanding the dynamical characteristics of particle emissions in the working stockyard but also for implementing effective control measures at appropriate sites in the harbour area. labels: #Minerals'
b'Hydroponic systems have been utilized as one of the standard methods for plant biology research and are also used in commercial production for several crops, including lettuce and tomato. Within the plant research community, numerous hydroponic systems have been designed to study plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Here we present a hydroponic protocol that can be easily implemented in laboratories interested in pursuing studies on plant mineral nutrition. This protocol describes the hydroponic system set up in detail and the preparation of plant material for successful experiments. Most of the materials described in this protocol can be found outside scientific supply companies, making the set up for hydroponic experiments less expensive and convenient. The use of a hydroponic growth system is most advantageous in situations where the nutrient media need to be well controlled and when intact roots need to be harvested for downstream applications. We also demonstrate how nutrient concentrations can be modified to induce plant responses to both essential nutrients and toxic non-essential elements. labels: #Minerals'
b'UNLABELLED: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most widespread diffuse liver pathologies among the patients over 40 years of age. The available algorithms for the pharmacological treatment of this disease do not always ensure the desirable results which makes their further development and improvement with the use of natural and preformed physical factors an important priority.AIM: The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the internal course of mineral waters of different balneological types and a bischofite aqueous solution for the treatment of the patients presenting with NAFLD.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 120 patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease were examined and treated with the use of the anamnestic, clinical, biochemical and immunochemical methods as well as sonographic studies of the digestive system and the statistical analysis.RESULTS: The data on the effectiveness of the use of mineral waters of different balneological types and a bischofite aqueous solution in the treatment of NAFLD are presented. It is shown that the use of an aqueous solution of bischofite improves the clinical course of the underlying disease (p<0.05), concomitant diseases of the biliary tract (p<0.02) and irritable bowl syndrome complicated by constipation (p<0.003); also, it improves the functional state of the liver and the blood lipid profile (p<0.02) and significantly reduces insulin resistance (p<0.01), primarily due to the reduction of hyperinsulinemia (p<0.01). Using the mineral waters with the predominance of sulfates can improve the clinical course of liver diseases (p<0.01), biliary tract and intestines (p<0.02), normalize the functional state of the liver including that in the patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (p<0.05,) significantly improve the blood lipid profile (p<0.02) due to the substantial improvement of disordered carbohydrate metabolism including that in the patients suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus (p<0.05). The application of mineral waters with the elevated content of hydrocarbons improves the clinical course of NAFLD with the concomitant esophagogastroduodenal pathology (p<0.001) and simultaneously reduces the severity of insulin resistance due to the lowering of the level of hyperinsulinemia (p<0.001). Moreover, the mineral water-based therapy improves tolerance to carbohydrates, in the first place in the patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (p<0.01), and restores the background lipid profile (p<0.05).CONCLUSION: The studies has demonstrated the high efficiency of the non-pharmacological treatment resulting in the multifaceted and oppositely directional influence on the patients presenting with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. The possibility of the differentiated application of mineral water and an aqueous solution of bischofite for the treatment of this pathology is confirmed depending on the stage of the disease, the severity of metabolic disorders, the presence of a concomitant pathology of the digestive system, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and hypertension. labels: #Minerals'
b'Recent studies indicate that mineralo-organic nanoparticles form in various human body fluids, including blood and urine. These nanoparticles may form within renal tubules and increase in size in supersaturated urine, eventually leading to the formation of kidney stones. Here, we present observations suggesting that mineralo-organic nanoparticles found in blood may induce kidney stone formation via an alternative mechanism in which the particles translocate through endothelial and renal epithelial cells to reach urine. We propose that this alternative mechanism of kidney stone formation and the study of mineralo-organic nanoparticles in general may provide novel strategies for the early detection and treatment of ectopic calcifications and kidney stones. labels: #Minerals'
b'UNLABELLED: Due to their large water content and structural similarities to the extracellular matrix, hydrogels are an attractive class of material in the tissue engineering field. Polymers capable of ionotropic gelation are of special interest due to their ability to form gels at mild conditions. In this study we have developed an experimental toolbox to measure the gelling kinetics of alginate upon crosslinking with calcium ions. A reaction-diffusion model for gelation has been used to describe the diffusion of calcium within the hydrogel and was shown to match experimental observations well. In particular, a single set of parameters was able to predict gelation kinetics over a wide range of gelling ion concentrations. The developed model was used to predict the gelling time for a number of geometries, including microspheres typically used for cell encapsulation. We also demonstrate that this toolbox can be used to spatiotemporally investigate the formation and evolution of mineral within the hydrogel network via correlative Raman microspectroscopy, confocal laser scanning microscopy and electron microscopy.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Hydrogels show great promise in cell-based tissue engineering, however new fabrication and modification methods are needed to realize the full potential of hydrogel based materials. The inclusion of an inorganic phase is one such approach and is known to affect both cell-material interactions and mechanical properties. This article describes the development of a correlative experimental approach where gel formation and mineralization has been investigated with spatial and temporal resolution by applying Raman microspectroscopy, optical and electron microscopy and a reaction-diffusion modeling scheme. Modeling allows us to predict gelling kinetics for other geometries and sizes than those investigated experimentally. Our experimental system enables non-destructive study of composite hydrogel systems relevant for, but not limited to, applications within bone tissue engineering. labels: #Minerals'
b'Understanding the stability of chloropyromorphite (CPY) is of considerable benefit for improving risk assessment and remediation strategies in contaminated water and soil. The stability of CPY in the rhizosphere of phosphorus-deficient ryegrass was evaluated to elucidate the role of root-secreted low molecular weight organic acids (LMWOAs) on the dissolution of CPY. Results showed that CPY treatments significantly reduced the ryegrass biomass and rhizosphere pH. The presence of calcium nitrate extractable lead (Pb) and phosphorus (P) suggested that CPY in the rhizosphere could be bioavailable, because P and Pb uptake by ryegrass potentially provided a significant concentration gradient that would promote CPY dissolution. Pb accumulation and translocation in ryegrass was found to be significantly higher in P-sufficient conditions than in P-deficient conditions. CPY treatments significantly enhanced root exudation of LMWOAs irrigated with P-nutrient solution or P-free nutrient solution. Oxalic acid was the dominant species in root-secreted LMWOAs of ryegrass under P-free nutrient solution treatments, suggesting that root-secreted oxalic acid may be the driving force of root-induced dissolution of CPY. Hence, our work, provides clarifying hints on the role of LMWOAs in controlling the stability of CPY in the rhizosphere. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study evaluated the morphology and elemental composition of Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) bones (humerus, radius, ulna, femur, tibia, fibula and rib). Computerized tomography was used to image the intraosseous structure, compact bones were processed using histological techniques, and elemental profiling of compact bone was conducted using X-ray fluorescence. There was no clear evidence of an open marrow cavity in any of the bones; rather, dense trabecular bone was found in the bone interior. Compact bone contained double osteons in the radius, tibia and fibula. The osteon structure was comparatively large and similar in all bones, although the lacuna area was greater (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05) in the femur and ulna. Another finding was that nutrient foramina were clearly present in the humerus, ulna, femur, tibia and rib. Twenty elements were identified in elephant compact bone. Of these, ten differed significantly across the seven bones: Ca, Ti, V, Mn, Fe, Zr, Ag, Cd, Sn and Sb. Of particular interest was the finding of a significantly larger proportion of Fe in the humerus, radius, fibula and ribs, all bones without an open medullary cavity, which is traditionally associated with bone marrow for blood cell production. In conclusion, elephant bones present special characteristics, some of which may be important to hematopoiesis and bone strength for supporting a heavy body weight. labels: #Minerals'
b'The expediency of application homeosyniatry by preparations of Traumel S and Placenta Compositum after the offered chart in relation to a complex with classic acupuncture and in relation to the group of the generally accepted treatment has been proved in complex treatment patients with reflex syndromes of lumbar osteochondrosis. A similar conclusion was done after the statistically reliable (P<0.05) dynamics of parameters of endogenous intoxication, liperoxydation and antioxydant systems of the protection (by the level of katalase, superoxyddismutase, SH-groups, ceruloplasmine). labels: #Minerals'
b'Nitrogen (N) deposition (NDEP) drives forest carbon (C) sequestration but the size of this effect is still uncertain. In the field, an estimate of these effects can be obtained by applying mineral N fertilizers over the soil or forest canopy. A15N label in the fertilizer can be then used to trace the movement of the added N into ecosystem pools and deduce a C effect. However, N recycling via litter decomposition provides most of the nutrition for trees, even under heavy NDEPinputs. If this recycled litter nitrogen is retained in ecosystem pools differently to added mineral N, then estimates of the effects of NDEPon the relative change in C (\xe2\x88\x86C/\xe2\x88\x86N) based on short-term isotope-labelled mineral fertilizer additions should be questioned. We used15N labelled litter to track decomposed N in the soil system (litter, soils, microbes, and roots) over 18\xc2\xa0months in a Sitka spruce plantation and directly compared the fate of this15N to an equivalent amount in simulated NDEPtreatments. By the end of the experiment, three times as much15N was retained in the O and A soil layers when N was derived from litter decomposition than from mineral N additions (60% and 20%, respectively), primarily because of increased recovery in the O layer. Roots expressed slightly more15N tracer from litter decomposition than from simulated mineral NDEP(7.5% and 4.5%) and compared to soil recovery, expressed proportionally more15N in the A layer than the O layer, potentially indicating uptake of organic N from decomposition. These results suggest effects of NDEPon forest \xe2\x88\x86C/\xe2\x88\x86N may not be apparent from mineral15N tracer experiments alone. Given the importance of N recycling, an important but underestimated effect of NDEPis its influence on the rate of N release from litter. labels: #Minerals'
b"Accurate identification of phosphorus (P) forms is crucially important for understanding the geochemical cycle of P; however, until now the role of ferrous iron P (Fe(II)-P) buried in sediments has been completely ignored in nearly all sequential extraction procedures developed. Using sediment cores sampled from Donghu Lake in Wuhan, China, this study explored a modified version of widely used sequential P extraction method (SEDEX; Ruttenberg, 1992) in which Fe(II)-P was identified as an independent fraction. Based on the high selectivity of the extractant (0.2% 2,2'-bipyridine+0.1\xc2\xa0M\xc2\xa0KCl) and the dissolution equilibrium of P, procedures for extracting Fe(II)-P were optimized using a 1:100 solid:liquid ratio and extraction at 50\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C for 24\xc2\xa0h. The sedimentary P extracted was divided into five fractions: loosely-bound P, Fe(II)-P, CDB-P, Ca-P and O-P. Fe(II)-P was the predominant fraction in fresh sediments in Donghu Lake, accounting for 15.7-49.9% of TP, with a mean of 31.6%. The mean values of Ca-P, O-P, CDB-P and loosely-bound P were 28.4%, 22.7%, 17.1% and 4.3%, respectively. Combined with component analysis of extracts and recovery experiments of standard reference minerals (vivianite, Fe3(PO4)2\xc2\xb78H2O) in natural sediments, extraction of Fe(II)-P with 0.2% 2,2-bipridine and 0.1\xc2\xa0M KCl was robust, with a good recovery rate (88.7-100.6%) and little of the Ca-P dissolved. It is possible to use this innovative SEDEX not only to distinguish the contribution of different P matrices in fresh sediments, but also to investigate the transformation of sedimentary P under different redox conditions. Therefore, greater focus on Fe(II)-P is necessary, because it is a major sink for the geochemical process of sedimentary P. labels: #Minerals"
b'BACKGROUND: The diets of postmenopausal women in Western countries tend to be deficient in minerals, even if the energy value is at the recommended level. The objective of the presented population-based cohort study was to assess the intake of minerals (sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron, zinc and copper) in the diets of women aged above 55\xc2\xa0years and to analyse the relations between BMI and mineral intake in this group.METHODS: The study was conducted in a group of 406 women who were randomly recruited from the general population of those aged above 55\xc2\xa0years. The main outcome measures included BMI, reported sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron, zinc and copper intake assessed by dietary record (conducted during two typical, non-consecutive days). The distribution was verified with the use of the Shapiro-Wilk test. The comparison between groups was conducted using ANOVA with the LSD post hoc test or Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA with multiple comparisons. A comparison of satisfying nutritional needs was conducted using the chi-square test.RESULTS: Normal body weight individuals were characterised by lower sodium intake per 1000\xc2\xa0kcal of diet than obese class II and III individuals (BMI\xe2\x80\x89\xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x8935.0\xc2\xa0kg/m(2)). Overweight individuals were characterised by lower potassium and magnesium intake per 1000\xc2\xa0kcal of diet than obese class I individuals (BMI\xcf\xb5\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x8930.0; 35.0\xc2\xa0kg/m(2)). The majority of individuals was characterised by insufficient potassium, calcium and magnesium intake. No differences in satisfying nutritional needs between BMI groups were observed for all minerals.CONCLUSIONS: Following an improperly balanced diet was observed in the group of postmenopausal female individuals analysed. It was stated that the daily intake of all the assessed minerals was not BMI-dependent for the postmenopausal female individuals, but the nutrient density of diet (for sodium, potassium and magnesium) was associated with BMI. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study was conducted to determine and compare the DE and ME content as well as the apparent total tract digestibility (ATTD) of GE in 28 samples of sorghum grain fed to growing pigs and to generate prediction equations for DE, ME, and the ATTD of GE based on chemical analysis. The 28 samples included 8 low-tannin sorghum cultivars (LTS; tannin \xe2\x89\xa4 0.16%), 10 medium-tannin sorghum cultivars (MTS: 0.67% \xe2\x89\xa4 tannin \xe2\x89\xa4 0.98%), and 10 high-tannin sorghum cultivars (HTS; 1.11% \xe2\x89\xa4 tannin \xe2\x89\xa4 1.51%) obtained from 9 provinces in China and 3 samples of LTS cultivars were obtained internationally. The 28 diets were formulated to contain 96.9% of 1 of the 28 sorghum grains and 3.1% of vitamins and minerals. Eighty-four barrows (36.5 \xc2\xb1 3.4 kg initial BW) were used in a randomized complete block design conducted during 2 consecutive periods ( = 6 per treatment) with the pigs fed different diets during the 2 periods. For each period, pigs were placed in metabolic crates for a 5-d total collection of feces and urine following 7 d of adaptation to the diets. Among the 28 samples, GE, CP, and ADF content (DM basis) ranged from 4,363 to 4,496 kcal/kg, 8.26 to 13.41%, and 3.26 to 5.78%, respectively. The average tannin content was 0.08, 0.84, and 1.29% in the LTS, MTS, and HTS samples, respectively. The DE and ME content (DM basis) ranged from 3,861 to 3,989 and from 3,784 to 3,905 kcal/kg, respectively, in LTS; from 3,646 to 3,740 and from 3,588 to 3,669 kcal/kg, respectively, in MTS; and from 3,481 to 3,617 and from 3,418 to 3,538 kcal/kg, respectively, in HTS. The mean DE, ME, DE/GE, ME/GE, and ATTD of GE in MTS were less than those in LTS (<0.05) and greater than those in HTS (<0.05). The correlation coefficients between DE, ME, or the ATTD of GE and tannin content were all -0.96 (<0.01). The best-fit equations for DE and ME (kcal/kg DM) for the complete set of 28 sorghum grains were 6,974 - (236 \xc3\x97 % tannin) - (43.27 \xc3\x97 % ADF) + (24.96 \xc3\x97 % CP) - (0.71 \xc3\x97 % GE) for DE and 3,973 - (262 \xc3\x97 % tannin) - (27.24 \xc3\x97 % ADF) for ME. Our results strongly indicate that the DE and ME content of sorghum grains are related to their chemical composition, especially their tannin content. The DE and ME content could decrease by more than 200 kcal/kg when the tannin content is increased by 1% in the sorghum grain. Overall, tannin is a key predictor for the DE and ME content as well as the ATTD of GE in sorghum grains, and the potent antinutritive properties from tannin should not be ignored when sorghum is used as an energy source for pigs. labels: #Minerals'
b'The present double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial intended to test whether ingestion of a natural combination medicine (Tr14 tablets) affects serum muscle damage and inflammatory immune response after downhill running. 96 male subjects received Tr14 tablets, which consist of 14 diluted biological and mineral components, or a placebo for 72\xe2\x80\x89h after the exercise test, respectively. Changes in postexercise levels of various serum muscle damage and immunological markers were investigated. The area under the curve with respect to the increase (AUCi) of perceived pain score and creatine kinase (CK) were defined as primary outcome measures. While for CK the p value of the difference between the two groups is borderline, the pain score and muscle strength were not statistically significant. However, a trend towards lower levels of muscle damage (CK, p = 0.05; LDH, p = 0.06) in the Tr14 group was shown. Less pronounced lymphopenia (p = 0.02), a trend towards a lower expression of CD69 count (p = 0.07), and antigen-stimulated ICAM-1 (p = 0.01) were found in the verum group. The Tr14 group showed a tendentially lower increase of neutrophils (p = 0.10), BDNF (p = 0.03), stem cell factor (p = 0.09), and GM-CSF (p = 0.09) to higher levels. The results of the current study indicate that Tr14 seems to limit exercise-induced muscle damage most likely via attenuation of both innate and adaptive immune responses. This study was registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01912469). labels: #Minerals'
b'In-depth understanding of the manganese ore would be beneficial to make the best use more environmental-friendly. A Ghana manganese ore before/after mechanical activation (MA) was therefore extensively characterized in our investigation. Surface Mn(4+)(35.5%), Mn(3+)(35.9%), Mn(2+)(28.6%) were detected by XPS, though XRD only revealed the presence of Mn(2+)-containing minerals. Thermal decomposition curve of manganese ore obtained by TG-DSC was divided into four stages from 373.15\xc2\xa0K to 1273.15\xc2\xa0K, which were quite consistent with the pattern of generated gases obtained by TG-FTIR and the theoretical thermodynamics analysis of the incorporated components involving \xce\x94GT(\xce\xb8) and Kp(\xce\xb8). Mn species distribution showed no difference for manganese ores before/after MA, but quantitative analysis showed the decrease of residual Mn content (cannot be extracted effectively by acid, from about 12% to 1%), and thereby the increased contents of other four Mn species (exchangeables, carbonates, oxides, organics), which was suggested to be correlated with the dissociation of Mn-containing flocs and SiO2 particles witnessed by SEM-EDS. It was also found that MA could obviously promote the Mn dissolution kinetics in acid condition, though the dissolution of manganese ore before/after MA were both diffusion controlled. This investigation gives benignant inspiration for the resource utilization of manganese ore, taking the increasingly severer situation of Mn resource supply into consideration. labels: #Minerals'
b'The response of methanotrophic bacteria capable of oxidizing atmospheric CH4to climate warming is poorly understood, especially for those present in Arctic mineral cryosols. The atmospheric CH4oxidation rates were measured in microcosms incubated at 4\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C and 10\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C along a 1-m depth profile and over a range of water saturation conditions for mineral cryosols containing type I and type II methanotrophs from Axel Heiberg Island (AHI), Nunavut, Canada. The cryosols exhibited net consumption of ~2 ppmv CH4under all conditions, including during anaerobic incubations. Methane oxidation rates increased with temperature and decreased with increasing water saturation and depth, exhibiting the highest rates at 10\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C and 33% saturation at 5\xc2\xa0cm depth (260\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa060 pmol CH4gdw-1d-1). Extrapolation of the CH4oxidation rates to the field yields net CH4uptake fluxes ranging from 11 to 73\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol CH4\xc2\xa0m-2d-1, which are comparable to field measurements. Stable isotope mass balance indicates ~50% of the oxidized CH4is incorporated into the biomass regardless of temperature or saturation. Future atmospheric CH4uptake rates at AHI with increasing temperatures will be determined by the interplay of increasing CH4oxidation rates vs. water saturation and the depth to the water table during summer thaw. labels: #Minerals'
b'The current article investigates the effect of bioactive cellulose/wool blend on calcium phosphate biomimetic mineralization. Regenerated cellulose/wool blend was prepared by dissolution-regeneration of neat cellulose and natural wool in 1-butyl-3-methyl imidazolium chloride [Bmim][Cl], as a solvent for the two polymers. Crystalline hydroxyapatite nanofibers with a uniform size, shape and dimension were formed after immersing the bioactive blend in simulated body fluid. The cytotoxicity of cellulose/wool/hydroxyapatite was studied using animal fibroblast baby hamster kidney cells (BHK-21) and the result displayed good cytocompatability. This research work presents a green processing method for the development of novel cellulose/wool/hydroxyapatite hybrid materials for tissue engineering applications. labels: #Minerals'
b'Plants associated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) acquire phosphorus via roots and extraradical hyphae. How soil P level affects P accumulation within hyphae and how P in hyphae influences the accumulation of metal minerals remains little explored. A bi-compartmented in vitro cultivation system separating a root compartment (RC), containing a Ri T-DNA transformed carrot root associated to the AMF Rhizophagus irregularis DAOM 197198, from a hyphal compartment (HC), containing only the extraradical hyphae, was used. The HC contained a liquid growth medium (i.e., the modified Strullu-Romand medium containing P in the form of KH2PO4) without (0\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) or adjusted to 35, 100, and 700\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM of KH2PO4. The accumulation of P and metal minerals (Ca, Mg, K, Na, Fe, Cu, Mn) within extraradical hyphae and AMF-colonized roots, and the expression of the phosphate transporter gene GintPT were assessed. The expression of GintPT in the extraradical hyphae did not differ in absence of KH2PO4or in presence of 35 and 100\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM KH2PO4in the HC but was markedly reduced in presence of 700\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM KH2PO4. Hyphal P concentration was significantly lowest in absence of KH2PO4, intermediate at 35 and 100\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM KH2PO4and significantly highest in presence of 700\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM KH2PO4in the HC. The concentrations of K, Mg, and Na were positively associated with the concentration of P in the extraradical hyphae developing in the HC. Similarly, P concentration in extraradical hyphae in the HC was related to P concentration in the growth medium and influenced the concentration of K, Mg, and Na. The accumulation of the metal mineral K, Mg, and Na in the extraradical hyphae developing in the HC was possibly related to their function in neutralizing the negative charges of PolyP accumulated in the hyphae. labels: #Minerals'
b'Though one of the most widely kept elasmobranchs in human care, the cownose ray (CNR; Rhinoptera bonasus ), remains a species with minimal published information on hematologic reference intervals. As part of a larger study investigating the health and nutrition of the CNR, this study established a preliminary data set of plasma chemistry and hematology values specific to animals recently caught from the wild and compared this data set (intake sample) to values obtained following a period of quarantine (27-40 days) in an aquarium (exit sample). Blood samples were collected from 47 wild female (n = 46) and male (n = 1) CNR caught in pound nets off the coast of North Carolina and South Carolina. Differences between intake and exit values were analyzed. Due to the preponderance of female animals, data were not analyzed for sex differences. Plasma biochemical profiles were performed and analyzed. A select number of complete blood cell counts were performed (n = 24 from 12 animals). Statistically significant differences (P<0.05) specific to time of sampling were determined for packed cell volume, total solids, blood urea nitrogen, sodium, chloride, potassium, phosphorus, cholesterol, glucose, and aspartate aminotransferase. Values reported are a significant expansion on the existing limited data for CNRs and will serve as a reference for health assessment of individuals both in the wild and in exhibit populations. labels: #Minerals'
b'The Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus harrisii) population has decreased by estimates of 80% in the past 20 yr due to the effects of devil facial tumor disease (DFTD). In the process of creating a DFTD-free insurance population, the captive population and the number of institutions housing devils worldwide has increased tremendously. In order to provide the best husbandry and veterinary care for these captive animals, it is essential to know normal hematology and biochemistry values for the species. Baseline reference intervals (RIs) were determined for hematology and biochemistry variables for 170 healthy anesthetized captive Tasmanian devils and significant sex and age differences were determined. Higher relative neutrophil counts, hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), creatinine, creatine phosphokinase, and cholesterol were seen in males compared to females, whereas higher white cell counts (WBC) and lymphocyte counts (absolute and relative) were seen in females. Subadults have higher red blood cell counts, WBC, lymphocytes (absolute and relative), calcium and phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, glutamate dehydrogenase, glucose, and albumin than adults; whereas, adults have higher relative neutrophils, relative eosinophils, mean corpuscular volume, MCH, platelets, total solids, total plasma proteins, globulins, and chloride than subadults. This study provides a comprehensive report of hematology and serum biochemistry RIs for healthy captive anesthetized Tasmanian devils and offers invaluable diagnostic information to care for the growing captive population of this endangered marsupial. labels: #Minerals'
b'Seven kinds of indigenous fruits and five imported fruits were compared for their "health quality." Methods including the calorific, antioxidant, and ion ratios were carried out. Results indicated the order of content (in mg/100g) was: Ca(2+) , Murcott orange (218.2)>Kiwifruit (200.0)>pineapple (138.5)>Golden kiwi (117.6); Mg(2+) , Pitaya (192.2), banana (88.0), Kiwifruit (63.4), and Golden kiwi (58.4); Zn(2+) , Pitaya (19.53)>pear (10.8)>Kiwifruit (6.09)>Irwin mango (4.58). Cu(2+) , Kiwifruit (0.70)>Red globe grape (0.67)>Golden kiwi (0.65)>Irwin mango (0.42) \xe2\x89\x88 Pitaya (0.40). In terms of ion ratio, Pitaya showed Zn(2+) /Cu(2+) (48.8), Mg(2+) /Ca(2+) (6.7) and uniquely possessed selenium 0.002 mg/100 g; for pear, Zn(2+) /Cu(2+) = 37.2, while Kyoho grape, Red globe grape, and Golden kiwi revealed extremely high Fe(2+) /(Co(2+) +Ni(2+) ) ratios. On the other hands, Irwin mango and Pitaya astonishingly contained huge amount of inositol, reaching 3523.2 mg/100 g and 1998.7 mg/100 g, respectively. To evaluate the "health quality" of fruits, an overall ranking method by combining (a) the Function-directed Caloric Antioxidant Density (CAD) and (b) the ion ratio was developed. The finalized ranking of these selected fruits was: Pitaya>cherry>Irwin mango>Murcott orange = pineapple>banana>Golden kiwi>pear>Kiwifruit>Red globe grape>apple>Kyoho grape. Conclusively, this evaluation method is novel, contemporary and scientific, which could more clearly assess the "health quality" of fruits in view of nutritional, calorific, and antioxidant balance. labels: #Minerals'
b'ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Cerebral ischemic stroke is one of the leading causes of death and long-term disability worldwide. Unfortunately, due to the failure of most of drugs in clinical trials recently, attentions have moved towards the traditional system of medicines including Ayurveda. In Ayurveda, Sameerpannag Ras (SR) is a mineral and metallic origin based formulation which has been used for the treatment of arthritis and chronic systematic inflammatory disorder. The current study was designed to investigate the neuroprotective effects of Sameerpannag Ras Mixture (SRM), on the neurobehavioral dysfunction and associated neuroinflammation, induced by transient Internal Carotid Artery Occlusion (ICAO) in mice model.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present study, mice were treated with Sameerpannag Ras Mixture (SRM) at the dose of 40mg/kg body weight by oral gavages for 3 and 7days respectively, twice a day, after the induction of ICAO for 90min followed by reperfusion. The efficacy of SRM was examined by scoring neurological behavioral deficit using the standard neurological deficit score (NDS), grip strength and rotarod performance tests at different time intervals of post-ICAO.RESULTS: Post-ischemic treatment with Sameerpannag Ras Mixture (SRM) at 40mg/kg significantly reduced Neurological Deficit Score and improved the motor coordination at different time intervals post-ICAO. The analysis of RT-qPCR data showed that transient cerebral ischemia could induce the inflammatory response genes in the affected striatal region of ICAO group, as compared to sham group, on day3 and day7 post-ICAO. Interestingly, SRM treatment showed marked improvement in the ischemia-induced neurobehavioral deficits by attenuating ischemia-induced neuroinflammatory response at both gene and protein level.CONCLUSION: The present study suggests that Sameerpannag Ras Mixture (SRM) treatment ameliorates behavioral outcomes after mild ischemia through the suppression of a number of inflammatory response genes involved in neuronal damage. This is the first report of the molecular mechanism underlying the significant neuroprotective action of the Ayurvedic drug, Sameerpannag Ras Mixture (SRM), using a mild stroke in mice model. labels: #Minerals'
b'Ruptured calcanean tendons in 10-month-old calvesMalignant catarrhal fever in a yearling bullockAortic thromboembolism in a four-day-old calfEpitheliogenesis imperfecta in lambsInfectious laryngotracheitis in backyard flocks These are among matters discussed in the disease surveillance report for April 2016 from SAC Consulting: Veterinary Services (SAC C VS). labels: #Minerals'
b"Presence of microorganisms in soils strongly affects mobility of metals. This fact is often excluded when mobile metal fraction in soil is studied using extraction procedures. Thus, the first objective of this paper was to evaluate strain Aspergillus niger's exometabolites contribution on aluminium mobilization. Fungal exudates collected in various time intervals during cultivation were analyzed and used for two-step bio-assisted extraction of alumina and gibbsite. Oxalic, citric and gluconic acids were identified in collected culture media with concentrations up to 68.4, 2.0 and 16.5\xc2\xa0mmol\xc2\xa0L-1, respectively. These exometabolites proved to be the most efficient agents in mobile aluminium fraction extraction with aluminium extraction efficiency reaching almost 2.2%. However, fungal cultivation is time demanding process. Therefore, the second objective was to simplify acquisition of equally efficient extracting agent by chemically mimicking composition of main organic acid components of fungal exudates. This was successfully achieved with organic acids mixture prepared according to medium composition collected on the 12th day of Aspergillus niger cultivation. This mixture extracted similar amounts of aluminium from alumina compared to culture medium. The aluminium extraction efficiency from gibbsite by organic acids mixture was lesser than 0.09% which is most likely because of more rigid mineral structure of gibbsite compared to alumina. The prepared organic acid mixture was then successfully applied for aluminium extraction from soil samples and compared to standard single step extraction techniques. This showed there is at least 2.9 times higher content of mobile aluminium fraction in soils than it was previously considered, if contribution of microbial metabolites is considered in extraction procedures. Thus, our contribution highlights the significance of fungal metabolites in aluminium extraction from environmental samples, but it also simplifies the extraction procedure inspired by bio-assisted extraction of aluminium by common soil fungus A.\xc2\xa0niger. labels: #Minerals"
b'The Etili neighborhood in Can County (northwestern Turkey) has large reserves of coal and has been the site of many small- to medium-scale mining operations since the 1980s. Some of these have ceased working while others continue to operate. Once activities cease, the mining facilities and fields are usually abandoned without rehabilitation. The most significant environmental problem is acid mine drainage (AMD). This study was carried out to determine the acid generation potential of various lithological units in the Etili coal mine using static test methods. Seventeen samples were selected from areas with high acidic water concentrations: from different alteration zones belonging to volcanic rocks, from sedimentary rocks, and from coals and mine wastes. Static tests (paste pH, standard acid-base accounting, and net acid generation tests) were performed on these samples. The consistency of the static test results showed that oxidation of sulfide minerals, especially pyrite-which is widely found not only in the alteration zones of volcanic rocks but also in the coals and mine wastes-is the main factor controlling the generation of AMD in this mine. Lack of carbonate minerals in the region also increases the occurrence of AMD. labels: #Minerals'
b'Microcystins (MCs) are potent toxins released during cyanobacterial blooms. Clay minerals are implicated in trapping MCs within soil particles in surface waters and sediments. In the absence of molecular characterization, the relevance of previously proposed adsorption mechanisms is lacking. Towards obtaining this characterization, we conducted Monte Carlo simulations combined with molecular dynamics relaxation of two MC variants, MC-leucine-arginine (MC-LR) and MC-leucine-alanine (MC-LA), adsorbed on hydrated montmorillonite with different electrolytes. The resulting adsorbate structures revealed how MC conformations and aqueous conditions dictate binding interactions at the mineral surface. Electrostatic coupling between the arginine residue and a carboxylate in MC-LR excluded the participation of arginine in mediating adsorption on montmorillonite in a NaCl solution. However, in a CaCl2 solution, the complexation of Ca by two carboxylate moieties in MC-LR changed the MC conformation, which allowed arginine to mediate electrostatic interaction with the mineral. By contrast, due to the lack of arginine in MC-LA, complexation of Ca by only one carboxylate in MC-LA was required to favor Ca-bridging interaction with the mineral. Multiple water-bridged H-bonding interactions were also important in anchoring MCs at the mineral surface. Our modeling results offer molecular insights into the structural and chemical factors that can control the fate of MCs at water-mineral interfaces. labels: #Minerals'
b'Pyrolyzing sludge into biochar is a potentially promising recycling/disposal solution for municipal wastewater sludge, and the sludge-derived biochar (SDBC) presents an excellent sorbent for metal immobilization. As SDBC is composed of both mineral oxides and carbonized organic compartment, this study therefore compared the sorption behaviour of Pb and Zn on SDBC to those of individual and mixture of activated carbon (AC) and amorphous aluminium oxide (Al2O3). Batch experiments were conducted at 25 and 45\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, and the metal-loaded sorbents were artificially aged in the atmosphere for 1-60\xc2\xa0days followed by additional sorption experiments. The Pb sorption was generally higher than Zn sorption, and the co-presence of Pb reduced Zn sorption on each studied sorbent. Higher sorption capacities were observed at 45\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C than 25\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C for SDBC and AC, while the opposite was shown for Al2O3, indicating the significance of temperature-dependent diffusion processes in SDBC and AC. Nevertheless, metal sorption was more selective on Al2O3that showed a greater affinity towards Pb over Zn under competition, correlating with the reducible fraction of sequential extraction. Furthermore, significant amounts of Pb and Zn were additionally sorbed on SDBC following 30-day ageing. The X-ray diffraction revealed the formation of metal-phosphate precipitates, while the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy showed a larger quantity of metal-oxygen bonding after 30-day ageing of metal-loaded SDBC. The results may imply favourable long-term transformation and additional sorption capacity of SDBC. In conclusion, SDBC resembles the sorption characteristics of both organic and mineral sorbents in different aspects, presenting an appropriate material for metal immobilization during soil amendment. labels: #Minerals'
b'Arsenic (As) contamination has become a worldwide environmental problem: arsenite (As(\xe2\x85\xa2)) especially has posed a major threat to human health. Here, we report the first three isolates of anaerobic As(\xe2\x85\xa4)-reducing bacterial strains (strains JQ, DJ-3 and DJ-4) from a soil sample containing 48.7% of total As in the form of As(III) collected in Chifeng, Inner Mongolia, China. Strains JQ, DJ-3 and DJ-4 were phylogenetically closely related to Bacillus, Desulfitobacterium and Exiguobacterium, respectively. Among these strains, JQ and DJ-3 have the arsC gene, DJ-4 possesses the arrA gene. The three strains could all resist and reduce high concentrations of As(\xe2\x85\xa4) under anoxic conditions. The order of resistance to As(\xe2\x85\xa4) was DJ-3\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0JQ\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0DJ-4. Strain DJ-3 not only possesses the strongest resistance to As(\xe2\x85\xa4) but could also reduce 53% of the As(\xe2\x85\xa4) to As(III) in the treatment of 60\xc2\xa0mM As(\xe2\x85\xa4) in 5\xc2\xa0d. All three strains could release As from goethite; strain DJ-4 has the highest ability to promote the release of As (90.5%) from goethite. These results suggested that strains JQ, DJ-3 and DJ-4 may play an important role in the mobilization and transformation of As in soil. labels: #Minerals'
b'In the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, the formation and mineralization of fracture-resistant skeletal elements such as the embryonic spicule require the combinatorial participation of numerous spicule matrix proteins such as the SpSM30A-F isoforms. However, because of limited abundance, it has been difficult to pursue extensive biochemical studies of the SpSM30 proteins and deduce their role in spicule formation and mineralization. To circumvent these problems, we expressed a model recombinant spicule matrix protein, rSpSM30B/C, which possesses the key sequence attributes of isoforms "B" and "C". Our findings indicate that rSpSM30B/C is expressed in insect cells as a single polypeptide containing variations in glycosylation that create microheterogeneity in rSpSM30B/C molecular masses. These post-translational modifications incorporate O- and N-glycans and anionic mono- and bisialylated and mono- and bisulfated monosaccharides on the protein molecules and enhance its aggregation propensity. Bioinformatics and biophysical experiments confirm that rSpSM30B/C is an intrinsically disordered, aggregation-prone protein that forms porous protein hydrogels that control the in vitro mineralization process in three ways: (1) increase the time interval for prenucleation cluster formation and transiently stabilize an ACC polymorph, (2) promote and organize single-crystal calcite nanoparticles, and (3) promote faceted growth and create surface texturing of calcite crystals. These features are also common to mollusk shell nacre proteins, and we conclude that rSpSM30B/C is a spiculogenesis protein that exhibits traits found in other calcium carbonate mineral modification proteins. labels: #Minerals'
b'Iron oxyhydroxides (FeOOH) are common crystalline forms of iron which play an important role in catalysis through a series of reduction-oxidation reactions. In this paper, Ce substituted goethite (Ce0.1Fe0.9OOH) was prepared by isomorphous substitution method, characterized by XRD, SEM, TEM-EDS, FTIR, and used for the catalytic ozonation of sulfamethazine (SMT). The results showed that the catalyst can significantly enhance the mineralization of SMT, and more than 42.1% SMT were mineralized in the presence of the catalyst, which is 1.74 times higher than ozonation alone. Moreover, with addition of catalyst, more ozone was dissolved into solution. The solution pH decreased due to small-molecule organic acids formation. The catalytic activity decreased slightly during the repeated batch experiments, due to the corrosion of the catalyst and the adsorption of the residual intermediates on the catalyst surface. labels: #Minerals'
b'The aqueous concentration of lead [Pb(II)] in geochemical environments is controlled by the solubility of Pb-bearing minerals and their weathering products. In contaminated soils, a common method for in situ stabilization of Pb(II) is the addition of phosphate to convert more redox sensitive sulfide minerals into sparingly soluble pyromorphite [Pb5(PO4)3X]. In this study, we conducted experimental studies to investigate the fate of reduced sulfur during the conversion of galena [PbS]to chloropyromorphite [Pb5(PO4)3Cl]. Powder X-ray diffraction analysis indicated that the reaction of phosphate with galena under oxic conditions resulted in the oxidation of sulfide and formation of elemental sulfur [S8]. Under oxic abiotic conditions, the S8was retained in the solid phase, and negligible concentrations of sulfur as sulfide and thiosulfate were detected in the aqueous phase and only a small amount of sulfate. When PbS reacted in the presence of the chemoautotrophic organism Bosea sp. WAO, the S8in the secondary mineral was oxidized to sulfate. Strain WAO produced significantly more sulfate from the secondary S8than from the primary galena. Microscopic analysis of mineral-microbe aggregates on mineral-embedded slide cultures showed that the organism was colocalized and increased in biomass over time on the secondary mineral surface supporting a microbial role. The results of this study indicate that stimulation of sulfur-oxidizing activity may be a direct consequence of phosphate amendments to Pb(II)-contaminated soils. labels: #Minerals'
b'UNLABELLED: The objective of the present study ( clinicaltrials.gov NCT02026414) was to observe the effects of oral supplementation of a purified and standardized Shilajit extract on skeletal muscle adaptation in adult overweight/class I obese human subjects from the U.S.POPULATION: Shilajit is a mineral pitch that oozes out of Himalayan rocks. The study design consisted of a baseline visit, followed by 8 weeks of 250\xe2\x80\x89mg of oral Shilajit supplementation b.i.d., and additional 4 weeks of supplementation with exercise. At each visit, blood samples and muscle biopsies were collected for further analysis. Supplementation was well tolerated without any changes in blood glucose levels and lipid profile after 8 weeks of oral supplementation and the additional 4 weeks of oral supplementation with exercise. In addition, no changes were noted in creatine kinase and serum myoglobin levels after 8 weeks of oral supplementation and the additional 4 weeks of supplementation with exercise. Microarray analysis identified a cluster of 17 extracellular matrix (ECM)-related probe sets that were significantly upregulated in muscles following 8 weeks of oral supplementation compared with the expression at the baseline visit. This cluster included tenascin XB, decorin, myoferlin, collagen, elastin, fibrillin 1, and fibronectin 1. The differential expression of these genes was confirmed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The study provided maiden evidence that oral Shilajit supplementation in adult overweight/class I obese human subjects promoted skeletal muscle adaptation through upregulation of ECM-related genes that control muscle mechanotransduction properties, elasticity, repair, and regeneration. labels: #Minerals'
b'Consumption of vegetables is often the predominant route whereby humans are exposed to the toxic metal Cd. Health impacts arising from Cd consumption may be influenced by changes in the mineral nutrient content of vegetables, which may occur when plants are exposed to Cd. Here, we subjected model root (carrot) and leaf (lettuce) vegetables to soil Cd concentrations of 0.3, 1.5, 3.3, and 9.6\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g(-1) for 10\xc2\xa0weeks to investigate the effect of Cd exposure on Cd accumulation, growth performance, and mineral nutrient homeostasis. The findings demonstrated that Cd accumulation in lettuce (20.1-71.5\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g(-1)) was higher than that in carrot (3.2-27.5\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g(-1)), and accumulation exceeded the maximum permissible Cd concentration in vegetables when soil contained more than 3.3\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g(-1) of Cd. There was a marked hormetic effect on carrot growth at a soil Cd concentration of 3.3\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g(-1), but increasing the Cd concentration to 9.6\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g(-1) caused decreased growth in both crops. Additionally, in most cases, there was a positive correlation between Cd and the mineral nutrient content of vegetables, which was due to physiological changes in the plants causing increased uptake and/or translocation. This may suggest a general mechanism whereby the plant compensated for disrupted mineral nutrient metabolism by increasing nutrient supply to its tissues. Increased nutrient levels could potentially offset some risks posed to humans by increased Cd levels in crops, and we therefore suggest that changes in mineral nutrient levels should be included more widely in the risk assessment of potentially toxic metal contamination. Graphical abstract The Cd concentration (\xce\xbcg g-1 in dry matter) in the root, shoot and translocation factor (TF) of Cd from root to shoot in the carrot and lettuce, and the percentage of root Cd to the gross Cd contents (%) in carrot (C) and lettuce (D) exposed to soil Cd (0 (control), 1, 3, and 9 \xce\xbcg g-1) for 70 days. Values are means \xc2\xb1 SD (n = 5). labels: #Minerals'
b'Nitrous acid (HONO) accumulates in the nocturnal boundary layer where it is an important source of daytime hydroxyl radicals. Although there is clear evidence for the involvement of heterogeneous reactions of NO2 on surfaces as a source of HONO, mechanisms remain poorly understood. We used coated-wall flow tube measurements of NO2 reactivity on environmentally relevant surfaces (Fe (hydr)oxides, clay minerals, and soil from Arizona and the Saharan Desert) and detailed mineralogical characterization of substrates to show that reduction of NO2 by Fe-bearing minerals in soil can be a more important source of HONO than the putative NO2 hydrolysis mechanism. The magnitude of NO2-to-HONO conversion depends on the amount of Fe(2+) present in substrates and soil surface acidity. Studies examining the dependence of HONO flux on substrate pH revealed that HONO is formed at soil pH<5 from the reaction between NO2 and Fe(2+)(aq) present in thin films of water coating the surface, whereas in the range of pH 5-8 HONO stems from reaction of NO2 with structural iron or surface complexed Fe(2+) followed by protonation of nitrite via surface Fe-OH2(+) groups. Reduction of NO2 on ubiquitous Fe-bearing minerals in soil may explain HONO accumulation in the nocturnal boundary layer and the enhanced [HONO]/[NO2]ratios observed during dust storms in urban areas. labels: #Minerals'
b"UNLABELLED: We show with laboratory experiments that self-assembled mineral tube formation involving precipitation around a templating jet of fluid - a mechanism well-known in the physical sciences from the tubular growth of so-called chemical gardens - functions with carbonates, and we analyse the microstructures and compositions of the precipitates. We propose that there should exist biological examples of fluid-flow-templated tubes formed from carbonates. We present observational and theoretical modelling evidence that the complex structure of biomineral calcium carbonate tubules that forms the 'rose' of the watering-pot shells, Clavagelloidea, may be an instance of this mechanism in biomineralization. We suggest that this is an example of self-organization and self-assembly processes in biomineralization, and that such a mechanism is of interest for the production of tubes as a synthetic biomaterial.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The work discussed in the manuscript concerns the self-assembly of calcium carbonate micro-tubes and nano-tubes under conditions of fluid flow together with chemical reaction. We present the results of laboratory experiments on tube self-assembly together with theoretical calculations. We show how nature may already be making use of this process in molluscan biomineralization of the so-called watering-pot shells, and we propose that we may be able to take advantage of the formation mechanism to produce synthetic biocompatible micro- and nano-tubes. labels: #Minerals"
b'The aim of this research was to investigate sulphate removal from mine water by precipitation as ettringite (Ca6Al2(SO4)3(OH)12\xc2\xb726H2O) and the utilisation of the precipitate as a sorbent for arsenate removal. The mine water sulphate concentration was reduced by 85-90% from the initial 1400\xc2\xa0mg/L during ettringite precipitation depending on the treatment method. The precipitation conditions were also simulated with MINEQL\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa0software, and the computational results were compared with the experimental results. The precipitated solids were characterised with X-ray diffraction and a scanning electron microscope. The precipitated solids were tested as sorbents for arsenate removal from the model solution. The arsenic(V) model solution concentration reduced 86-96% from the initial 1.5\xc2\xa0mg/L with a 1\xc2\xa0g/L sorbent dosage. The effect of initial arsenate concentration on the sorption of arsenate on the precipitate was studied and Langmuir, Freundlich, and Langmuir-Freundlich sorption isotherm models were fitted to the experimental data. The maximum arsenate sorption capacity (qm\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa011.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa04.7\xc2\xa0mg/g) of the precipitate was obtained from the Langmuir-Freundlich isotherm. The results indicate that the precipitate produced during sulphate removal from mine water by precipitation as ettringite could be further used as a sorbent for arsenate removal. labels: #Minerals'
b'Iron monosulfides are the initial iron sulfide minerals that form under reducing conditions in organic-rich sediments. Frequently referred as monosulfidic black ooze (MBO), these sediments exists in a range of anoxic systems including estuaries, coastal wetlands and permeable reactive barriers. The objective of this study was to investigate the transformation of solid phase sulfur, iron fractions and trace metals mobilisation in organic-rich hypersulfidic sediments during dredging. Two sediments from geographically contrasting sites in the Peel-Harvey Estuary were collected and subjected to oxidation through resuspension over 14 days. During oxidation, redox potential rapidly and continuously increased, although minimal change in pH was observed in both sediments. The majority of FeS was oxidised within 48\xc2\xa0h. Although not as dynamic as FeS, unusually high rates of FeS2oxidation were measured in both sediments at circumneutral pH, with between 39 and 58% of FeS2oxidised over 14 days. The rapid oxidation of FeS2may be attributed to the presence of nano-size FeS2crystals (\xe2\x89\x88550-860\xc2\xa0nm) with a high surface area. Before resuspension, solid bound Fe(total) was most abundant as measured by HCl-extractable Fe(II), followed by organic bound Fe(total) and oxide bound Fe(total). There was a marked decrease in these three fractions in both sediments during resuspension, with an increase in Fe(III) fraction. No significant release of trace metals was observed during resuspension of sulfidic sediments. However, disturbance to these estuarine sediments increases Fe(III) formation and further deteriorates the environment through smothering biological surfaces, deteriorating food sources and the quality of benthic habitats. labels: #Minerals'
b'The application of X-ray micro-computed tomography (\xce\xbc-CT) for quantitatively characterizing reactive-flow induced pore structure evolution including local particle detachment, displacement and deposition in carbonate rocks is investigated. In the studies conducted in this field of research, the experimental procedure has involved alternating steps of imaging and ex-situ core sample alteration. Practically, it is impossible to return the sample, with micron precision, to the same position and orientation. Furthermore, successive images of a sample in pre- and post-alteration states are usually taken at different conditions such as different scales, resolutions and signal-to-noise ratios. These conditions accompanying with subresolution features in the images make voxel-by-voxel comparisons of successive images problematic. In this paper, we first address the respective challenges in voxel-wise interpretation of successive images of carbonate rocks subject to reactive flow. Reactive coreflood in two carbonate cores with different rock types are considered. For the first rock, we used the experimental and imaging results published by Qajar et al. (2013) which showed a quasi-uniform dissolution regime. A similar reactive core flood was conducted in the second rock which resulted in wormhole-like dissolution regime. We particularly examine the major image processing operations such as transformation of images to the same grey-scale, noise filtering and segmentation thresholding and propose quantitative methods to evaluate the effectiveness of these operations in voxel-wise analysis of successive images of a sample. In the second part, we generalize the methodology based on the three-phase segmentation of normalized images, microporosity assignment and 2D histogram of image intensities to estimate grey-scale changes of individual image voxels for a general case where the greyscale images are segmented into arbitrary number of phases. The results show that local (voxel-based) porosity changes can be decomposed into local mineral dissolution and deposition. Moreover, it is found that the microporosity evolutions are differently distributed in the samples after the reactive coreflood experiments. In the last part of the paper, for the case of quasi-uniform dissolution, we combine the tomographic images with numerical calculations of permeability along the core to characterize the relationship between changes in permeability and the fractions of the mineral dissolved and deposited. A consistency is found between the calculated longitudinal permeability changes and the quantified distribution of mineral dissolved and deposited along the sample. labels: #Minerals'
b'The nutraceutical industry has proliferated in recent years, with the most popular form of supplementation being the multivitamin-multimineral (MVMM) supplement. In the animal health sector, supplement use has also expanded. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of MVMM supplementation, beneficial or otherwise, on the general health status of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) strain, an animal model used in hypertension research. A commercially prepared MVMM supplement was given tri-weekly via oral dosing for 8 weeks to two groups of seven adult female SHR and Wistar rats. Their corresponding control groups were dosed with deionised water only. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure, fasting blood glucose, growth rate and food and water intake were measured weekly. At the end of 8 weeks, the animals were euthanased and a full blood profile, urine sodium to potassium ratio, blood urea nitrogen levels and total plasma cholesterol was measured for all groups. The results indicated that growth rate was higher for the SHR supplemented group. Supplementation also decreased diastolic blood pressure in both Wistar and SHR groups and increased red blood cell count and decreased total cholesterol in the SHR group. No adverse effects on the general health status of the animals were observed. MVMM supplementation may therefore be useful in aiding growth and delaying the onset of hypertension and its effects. It may also assist in the longevity of the breeding stock of SHR rats. labels: #Minerals'
b"Calponin is a widely distributed protein which is associated with the bio-mineralization process in vertebrates. Recently, a new type of calponin has been found in shellfish; the present study aimed to determine if this gene in shellfish functions in bio-mineralization, one of the most important processes in a mollusk's growth. We chose Chlamys farreri, a seashell species with great economic value, as the object of the study and obtained its full-length cDNA to study the function of calponin by gene expression analysis, shell notching experiment and RNA interference assays. Calponin in C. farreri is a basic protein that is highly conserved among mollusk species. Except for high expression in the adductor muscle and foot, which correlated with its function of regulating muscle contraction, the calponin gene was expressed more in the mantle than in other tissues. The expression of the gene was induced by shell notching and an RNA interference assay showed that inhibition of calponin expression caused the growth of irregular mineral crystals on the shell. Further analysis indicated that calponin might function by regulating the expression of other mineralization-related genes. Calponin is a mineralization-related protein in C. farreri that might influence mineral crystal growth by affecting the expressions of other proteins, such as matrix proteins and mineralization-regulating proteins. labels: #Minerals"
b'From May to September 2012, ozone reductions associated with 15 Saharan dust outbreaks which occurred between May to September 2012 have been evaluated. The campaign was performed at a mountain station located near the eastern coast of the Iberian Peninsula. The study has two main goals: firstly, to analyze the decreasing gradient of ozone concentration during the course of the Saharan episodes. These gradients vary from 0.2 to 0.6\xc2\xa0ppb\xc2\xa0h(-1) with an average value of 0.39\xc2\xa0ppb\xc2\xa0h(-1). The negative correlation between ozone and coarse particles occurs almost simultaneously. Moreover, although the concentration of coarse particles remained high throughout the episode, the time series shows the saturation of the ozone loss. The highest ozone depletion has been obtained during the last hours of the day, from 18:00 to 23:00 UTC. Outbreaks registered during this campaign have been more intense in this time slot. The second objective is to establish from which coarse particle concentration a significant ozone depletion can be observed and to quantify this reduction. In this regard, it has been confirmed that when the hourly particle concentration recorded during the Saharan dust outbreaks is above the hourly particle median values (N\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0N-median), the ozone concentration reduction obtained is statistically significant. An average ozone reduction of 5.5\xc2\xa0% during Saharan events has been recorded. In certain cases, this percentage can reach values of higher than 15\xc2\xa0%. labels: #Minerals'
b'Tea [Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze] is one of the most popular non-alcoholic beverage crops in the world, and the physiological processes and gene regulations involved in development in tea plants have been well characterized. However, relatively little is known about the metabolic changes combined with mineral distributions that occur during flower development. Here we detected the contents of 11 elements in tea leaves and flowers and found that, some of them, especially phosphorus, sulfur and copper, showed significant changes during tea flowering. We also detected 122 metabolites in tea leaves and flowers and found that, 72 of them showed significant differences between flowers and leaves, of which sugars, organic acids, and flavonoids dominated. The sugars, such as trehalose and galactose, all accumulated in tea flowers, and the organic acids, such as malic acid, citric acid and fumaric acid involved in TCA cycle. The flavonoids, like epicatechin, catechin gallate and epigallocatechin, were more abundant in leaves. Furthermore, we found that the contents of 33 metabolites changed during the development of flowers. Especially, citric acid, phenylalanine and most flavonoids decreased while fructose and galactose increased during flowering stages in flowers. We also analyzed the correlations between the ions and metabolites and found that, some mineral nutrients including phosphorus, sulfur, manganese and zinc had close relations to organic acids, flavonoids, sugars and several amino acids during flowering. We mapped the metabolic pathway according to the KEGG database. This work will serve as the foundation for a systems biology approach to the understanding of mineral metabolism. labels: #Minerals'
b'Al substitution in goethite is common in soils, and has strong influence on the structure and physicochemical properties of goethite. In this research, a series of Al-doped goethites were synthesized, and characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy. The adsorption behavior of these samples towards PO4(3-) was also investigated. Characterization results demonstrated that increasing Al content in goethite led to a reduction in crystallinity, increase in specific surface area (SSA), and morphology change from needle-like to granular. Rietveld structure refinement revealed that the lattice parameter a remained almost constant and b slightly decreased, but c was significantly reduced, and the calculated crystal density increased. EXAFS analysis demonstrated that the Fe(Al)-O distance in the structure of the doped goethites was almost the same, but the Fe-Fe(Al) distance decreased with increasing Al content. Surface analysis showed that, with increasing Al content, the content of OH groups on the mineral surface increased. The adsorption of phosphate per unit mass of Al-doped goethite increased, while adsorption per unit area decreased owing to the decrease of the relative proportion of (110) facets in the total surface area of the minerals. The results of this research facilitate better understanding of the effect of Al substitution on the structure and properties of goethite and the cycling of phosphate in the environment. labels: #Minerals'
b'Previous studies have suggested that kidney donors may have abnormalities of mineral and bone metabolism typically seen in chronic kidney disease. This may have important implications for the skeletal health of living kidney donors and for our understanding of the pathogenesis of long-term mineral and bone disorders in chronic kidney disease. In this prospective study, 182 of 203 kidney donors and 173 of 201 paired normal controls had markers of mineral and bone metabolism measured before and at 6 and 36 months after donation (ALTOLD Study). Donors had significantly higher serum concentrations of intact parathyroid hormone (24.6% and 19.5%) and fibroblast growth factor-23 (9.5% and 8.4%) at 6 and 36 months, respectively, as compared to healthy controls, and significantly reduced tubular phosphate reabsorption (-7.0% and -5.0%) and serum phosphate concentrations (-6.4% and -2.3%). Serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 concentrations were significantly lower (-17.1% and -12.6%), while 25-hydroxyvitamin D (21.4% and 19.4%) concentrations were significantly higher in donors compared to controls. Moreover, significantly higher concentrations of the bone resorption markers, carboxyterminal cross-linking telopeptide of bone collagen (30.1% and 13.8%) and aminoterminal cross-linking telopeptide of bone collagen (14.2% and 13.0%), and the bone formation markers, osteocalcin (26.3% and 2.7%) and procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide (24.3% and 8.9%), were observed in donors. Thus, kidney donation alters serum markers of bone metabolism that could reflect impaired bone health. Additional long-term studies that include assessment of skeletal architecture and integrity are warranted in kidney donors. labels: #Minerals'
b'Sorption of 2-chlorophenol (2-CP), 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP) on a range of dealuminated zeolites were investigated to understand the mechanism of their sorption on microporous minerals, while the influence of common metal cations, solution pH, and humic acid was also studied. Sorption of chlorophenols was found to increase with the hydrophobicity of the sorbates and that of the microporous minerals, indicating the important role of hydrophobic interactions, while sorption was also stronger in the micropores of narrower sizes because of greater enhancement of the dispersion interactions. The presence of metal cations could enhance chlorophenol sorption due to the additional electrostatic attraction between metal cations exchanged into the mineral micropores and the chlorophenolates, and this effect was apparent on the mineral sorbent with a high density of surface cations (2.62 sites/nm(2)) in its micropores. Under circum-neutral or acidic conditions, neutral chlorophenol molecules adsorbed into the hydrophobic micropores through displacing the "loosely bound" water molecules, while their sorption was negligible under moderately alkaline conditions due to electrostatic repulsion between the negatively charged zeolite framework and anionic chlorophenolates. The influence of humic acid on sorption of chlorophenols on dealuminated Y zeolites suggests that its molecules did not block the micropores but created a secondary sorption sites by forming a "coating layer" on the external surface of the zeolites. These mechanistic insights could help better understand the interactions of ionizable chlorophenols and metal cations in mineral micropores and guide the selection and design of reusable microporous mineral sorbents for sorptive removal of chlorophenols from aqueous stream. labels: #Minerals'
b'Heavy metals such as Cd are considered to be the most important pollutants in soil contamination. Cd is a non-essential element adversely affecting plant growth and development, and it has caused some physiological and molecular changes. Metallothioneins (MTs) are low molecular weight, cysteine-rich, and metal binding proteins. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the MT gene expression levels and minerals uptake in the tissues of Solanum lycopersicum exposed to Cd. The transcriptional expression of the MT genes was determined by real-time quantitative PCR. The MT genes were regulated by the Cd and the mineral elements uptake changed tissue type and applied doses. The MT1 and MT2 transcript levels increased in the roots, the leaves and the fruits of the tomato. The MT3 and MT4 transcript pattern changed according to the tissue types. The Cd treatment on the growth medium increased the Mg, Ca, and Fe content in both the leaves and fruits of the tomato. However, the Cd affected the mineral levels in the roots depending on the mineral types and doses. Also, the Cd content increased in the roots, the leaves, and the fruits of the tomato, respectively. The results presented in this study show that Cd has synergistic and/or antagonistic effects on minerals depending on the tissue types. These results indicate that the MT1 and MT2 expression pattern increased together with the Mg, Ca, and Fe content in both the leaves and the fruits of the tomato. labels: #Minerals'
b'In order to cope with variable mineral nutrient availability, higher plants have developed numerous strategies including the remobilization of nutrients from source to sink tissues. However, such processes remain relatively unknown for magnesium (Mg), which is the third most important cation in plant tissues. Using Mg depletion of Brassica napus, we have demonstrated that Mg is remobilized from old leaves to young shoot tissues. Moreover, this study showed that Mg depletion induces modification of nutrient uptake, especially Zn and Mn. Finally, comparative proteomic analysis of old leaves (source of Mg) revealed amongst other results that some proteins requiring Mg for their functionality (isocitrate dehydrogenase for example) were up-regulated. Moreover, down-regulation of proteases suggested that mobilization of Mg from old leaves was not associated with senescence. labels: #Minerals'
b'Understanding fracture alteration resulting from geochemical reactions is critical in predicting fluid migration in the subsurface and is relevant to multiple environmental challenges. Here, we present a novel 2.5D continuum reactive transport model that captures and predicts the spatial pattern of fracture aperture change and the development of an altered layer in the near-fracture region. The model considers permeability heterogeneity in the fracture plane and updates fracture apertures and flow fields based on local reactions. It tracks the reaction front of each mineral phase and calculates the thickness of the altered layer. Given this treatment, the model is able to account for the diffusion limitation on reaction rates associated with the altered layer. The model results are in good agreement with an experimental study in which a CO2-acidified brine was injected into a fracture in the Duperow Dolomite, causing dissolution of calcite and dolomite that result in the formation of a preferential flow channel and an altered layer. With an effective diffusion coefficient consistent with the experimentally observed porosity of the altered layer, the model captures the progressive decrease in the dissolution rate of the fast-reacting mineral in the altered layer. labels: #Minerals'
b'The clinical benefits of electromagnetic field (EMF) therapy in enhancing osteogenesis have been acknowledged for decades, but agreement regarding the underlying mechanisms continues to be sought. Studies have shown EMFs to promote osteoblast-like cell proliferation, or contrarily, to induce differentiation and enhance mineralization. Typically these disparities have been attributed to methodological differences. The present paper argues the possibility that the chosen osteoblast model impacts stimulation outcome. Phenotypically immature cells, particularly at low seeding densities, appear to be prone to EMF-amplified proliferation. Conversely, mature cells at higher densities seem to be predisposed to earlier onset differentiation and mineralization. This suggests that EMFs augment ongoing processes in cell populations. To test this hypothesis, mature SaOS-2 cells and immature MC3T3-E1 cells at various densities, with or without osteo-induction, were exposed to sinusoidal 50 Hz EMF. The exposure stimulated the proliferation of MC3T3-E1 and inhibited the proliferation of SaOS-2 cells. Baseline alkaline phosphatase (ALP) expression of SaOS-2 cells was high and rapidly further increased with EMF exposure, whereas ALP effects in MC3T3-E1 cells were not seen until the second week. Thus both cell types responded differently to EMF stimulation, corroborating the hypothesis that the phenotypic maturity and culture stage of cells influence stimulation outcome. labels: #Minerals'
b"Cryptotephra (particles<125\xce\xbcm) is a key record for monitoring past and current volcanic activity. However, its extraction from the host sediment and analysis is often long and difficult because of its small size. Finding a simple method to extract cryptotephra from environmental samples would therefore make its analysis much easier. We hypothesized that arcellinid testate amoebae may hold such a potential. These free-living shelled protists are among the earliest microorganisms to colonize volcanic tephra, and build their shell by agglutinating minerals from their environment. We analyzed by X-ray Spectrometry the mineral signature of tephra from the 2011 Puyehue-Cordon Caulle Volcanic Complex (Chile) eruption ash fallout and compared it to that of the shells of 51 individual testate amoebae (three individuals from each of 17 species) from 13 samples collected at different distances from the active vent. The mineral composition of particles within shells closely matched that of similar size class particles from their environment. The capacity of testate amoebae to randomly use mineral grains from their environment makes it possible to use their shells to assess the mineral composition of cryptotephra from soil, peat or sediment samples. Testate amoebae therefore represent the microbial world's version of Cinderella's helping pigeons. labels: #Minerals"
b'When goethite is exposed to aqueous Fe(2+), rapid and extensive Fe atom exchange can occur between solid-phase Fe(3+) and aqueous Fe(2+) in a process referred to as Fe(2+)-catalyzed recrystallization. This process can lead to the structural incorporation or release of trace elements, which has important implications for contaminant remediation and nutrient biogeochemical cycling. Prior work found that the process did not cause major changes to the goethite structure or morphology. Here, we further investigated if and how goethite morphology and aggregation behavior changed temporally during Fe(2+)-catalyzed recrystallization. On the basis of existing literature, we hypothesized that Fe(2+)-catalyzed recrystallization of goethite would not result in changes to individual particle morphology or interparticle interactions. To test this, we reacted nanoparticulate goethite with aqueous Fe(2+) at pH 7.5 over 30 days and used transmission electron microscopy (TEM), cryogenic TEM, and (55)Fe as an isotope tracer to observe changes in particle dimensions, aggregation, and isotopic composition over time. Over the course of 30 days, the goethite particles substantially recrystallized, and the particle dimensions changed anisotropically, resulting in a preferential increase in the mean particle width. The temporal changes in goethite morphology could not be completely explained by a single mineral-transformation mechanism but rather indicated that multiple transformation mechanisms occurred concurrently. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the morphology of goethite nanoparticles does change during recrystallization, which is an important step toward identifying the driving force(s) of recrystallization. labels: #Minerals'
b'Investigations of the bone system and body composition in Mars-500 test-subjects (prior to and on completion of the experiment) involved dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) using the HOLOGIC Delphy densitometer and the protocol performed to examine cosmonauts. Bone density of lumber vertebrae and femoral proximal epiphysis, and body composition were measured. Reliable changes in vertebral density found in 3 test-subjects displayed different trends from +2.6 to -2.4%. At the same time, the experiment decreased significantly mineral density of the femoral proximal epiphysis, including the neck, in all test-subjects. Four test-subjects had cranial mineralization increased by 5-9%, same as in some cosmonauts after space flight. All tests-subjects incurred adipose loss from 2 to 7 kg; one test-subject lost 20 kg, i.e. his adipose mass became three times less. Changes in lean mass (1-3 kg) typically were negative; as for changes in lean mass of extremities, they could be linked with adherence to one or another type of physical activity. Therefore, extended exposure to confinement may affect mineralization of some parts of the skeleton. Unlike real space missions and long-term bedrest studies conducted at the Institute of Biomedical Problems in the past, Mars-500 did not cause clinically significant mineral losses (osteoporosis, osteopenia), probably because of the absence of effects of microgravity. labels: #Minerals'
b"Effects of acid mine drainage (AMD) were investigated in surface waters (Laranjinha River and Ribeir\xc3\xa3o das Pedras stream) and groundwaters from a coal mining area sampled in two different seasons at Figueira city, Paran\xc3\xa1 State, Brazil. The spatial data distribution indicated that the acid effluents favor the chemical elements leaching and transport from the tailings pile into the superficial water bodies or aquifers, modifying their quality. The acid groundwaters in both sampling periods (dry: pH 2.94-6.04; rainy: pH 3.25-6.63) were probably due to the AMD generation and infiltration, after the oxidation of sulfide minerals. Such acid effluents cause an increase of the solubilization rate of metals, mainly iron and aluminum, contributing to both groundwater and surface water contamination. Sulfate in high levels is a result of waters' pollution due to AMD. In some cases, high sulfate and low iron contents, associated with less acidic pH values, could indicate that AMD, previously generated, is nowadays being neutralized. The chemistry of the waters affected by AMD is controlled by the pH, sulfide minerals' oxidation, oxygen, iron content, and microbial activity. It is also influenced by seasonal variations that allow the occurrence of dissolution processes and the concentration of some chemical elements. Under the perspective of the waters' quality evaluation, the parameters such as conductivity, dissolved sodium, and sulfate concentrations acted as AMD indicators of groundwaters and surface waters affected by acid effluents. labels: #Minerals"
b'Nickel laterites cannot be effectively used in physical methods because of their poor crystallinity and fine grain size. Na2SO4 is the most efficient additive for grade enrichment and Ni recovery. However, how Na2SO4 affects the selective reduction of laterite ores has not been clearly investigated. This study investigated the decomposition of laterite with and without the addition of Na2SO4 in an argon atmosphere using thermogravimetry coupled with mass spectrometry (TG-MS). Approximately 25 mg of samples with 20 wt% Na2SO4 was pyrolyzed under a 100 ml/min Ar flow at a heating rate of 10\xc2\xb0C/min from room temperature to 1300\xc2\xb0C. The kinetic study was based on derivative thermogravimetric (DTG) curves. The evolution of the pyrolysis gas composition was detected by mass spectrometry, and the decomposition products were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD). The decomposition behavior of laterite with the addition of Na2SO4 was similar to that of pure laterite below 800\xc2\xb0C during the first three stages. However, in the fourth stage, the dolomite decomposed at 897\xc2\xb0C, which is approximately 200\xc2\xb0C lower than the decomposition of pure laterite. In the last stage, the laterite decomposed and emitted SO2 in the presence of Na2SO4 with an activation energy of 91.37 kJ/mol. The decomposition of laterite with and without the addition of Na2SO4 can be described by one first-order reaction. Moreover, the use of Na2SO4 as the modification agent can reduce the activation energy of laterite decomposition; thus, the reaction rate can be accelerated, and the reaction temperature can be markedly reduced. labels: #Minerals'
b'The main objective of this study was to investigate the dissolution kinetics of pyrite, pyrrhotite, and chalcopyrite. Crushed minerals were reacted with Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans (25 \xc2\xb0C). The kinetics of dissolution was investigated by monitoring pH and Fe(2+) and Fe(3+) ion concentrations in the leaching solutions. Pyrite, pyrrhotite, and chalcopyrite dissolution by A. ferrooxidans was found to be a chemically controlled process. With bacteria, the dissolution rates of the minerals increased in the order of pyrrhotite, pyrite, and chalcopyrite. The number of cells attached to mineral surfaces increased in the same order. Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans was found to enhance the dissolution rates of the minerals. The acid-insoluble trait of pyrite and acid-soluble trait of the other 2 minerals affected the pH changes in the leaching solutions. labels: #Minerals'
b'The sorption of radium 226 ((226)Ra) on different clay materials (bentonite, illite and a mixture of bentonite-illite) was studied. Clay materials are used in the construction of disposal pits for technically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (TENORM) wastes (i.e., contaminated soil and sludge) generated by the oil and gas industry operations. Experimental conditions (pH, clay materials quantity, and activity concentrations of (226)Ra) were changed in order to determine the optimal state for adsorption of (226)Ra. The results showed that the concentration of adsorbed (226)Ra on clay materials increased with time to reach an equilibrium state after approximately 5\xc2\xa0h. More than 95\xc2\xa0% of the radium was adsorbed. The mixture of bentonite-illite (1/9) exhibited the greatest adsorption of radium under all experimental conditions. labels: #Minerals'
b'The sorption of perfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs) was investigated for two model soil mineral surfaces, alumina (Al2O3) and silica (SiO2), on molecular level using neutron scattering. The PFASs were selected (i.e. perfluorohexanoic acid (PFHxA), perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), perfluorononanoic acid (PFNA), and perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (PFOS)) to examine the role of hydrophobic chain length and hydrophilic functional group on their sorption behaviour. All four PFASs were found to sorb to alumina surface (positively charged) forming a hydrated layer consisting of 50% PFASs. The PFAS solubility limit, which decrease with chain length, was found to strongly influence the sorption behaviour. The sorbed PFAS layer could easily be removed by gentle rinsing with water, indicating release upon rainfall in the environment. No sorption was observed for PFOA and PFOS at silica surface (negatively charged), showing electrostatic interaction being the driving force in the sorption process. labels: #Minerals'
b'The worldwide use of the phenylurea herbicide, isoproturon (IPU), has resulted in considerable concern about its environmental fate. Although many microbial metabolites of IPU are known and IPU-mineralizing bacteria have been isolated, the molecular mechanism of IPU catabolism has not been elucidated yet. In this study, complete genes that encode the conserved IPU catabolic pathway were revealed, based on comparative analysis of the genomes of three IPU-mineralizing sphingomonads and subsequent experimental validation. The complete genes included a novel hydrolase gene ddhA, which is responsible for the cleavage of the urea side chain of the IPU demethylated products; a distinct aniline dioxygenase gene cluster adoQTA1A2BR, which has a broad substrate range; and an inducible catechol meta-cleavage pathway gene cluster adoXEGKLIJC. Furthermore, the initial mono-N-demethylation genes pdmAB were further confirmed to be involved in the successive N-demethylation of the IPU mono-N-demethylated product. These IPU-catabolic genes were organized into four transcription units and distributed on three plasmids. They were flanked by multiple mobile genetic elements and highly conserved among IPU-mineralizing sphingomonads. The elucidation of the molecular mechanism of IPU catabolism will enhance our understanding of the microbial mineralization of IPU and provide insights into the evolutionary scenario of the conserved IPU-catabolic pathway. labels: #Minerals'
b'Cryoconite granules are aggregations of microorganisms with mineral particles that form on glacier surfaces. To understand the processes by which the granules develop, this study focused on the altitudinal distribution of the granules and photosynthetic microorganisms on the glacier, bacterial community variation with granules size and environmental factors affecting the growth of the granules. Size-sorted cryoconite granules collected from five different sites on Qaanaaq Glacier were analyzed. C and N contents were significantly higher in large (diameter greater than 250 \xce\xbcm) granules than in smaller (diameter 30-249 \xce\xbcm) granules. Bacterial community structures, based on 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, were different between the smaller and larger granules. The filamentous cyanobacterium Phormidesmis priestleyi was the dominant bacterial species in larger granules. Multivariate analysis suggests that the abundance of mineral particles on the glacier surface is the main factor controlling growth of these cyanobacteria. These results show that the supply of mineral particles on the glacier enhances granule development, that P. priestleyi is likely the key species for primary production and the formation of the granules and that the bacterial community in the granules changes over the course of the granule development. labels: #Minerals'
b'Chemosynthetic sediment and planktonic community composition and sizes, aqueous geochemistry and sediment mineralogy were determined in 15 non-photosynthetic hot springs in Yellowstone National Park (YNP). These data were used to evaluate the hypothesis that differences in the availability of dissolved or mineral substrates in the bulk fluids or sediments within springs coincides with ecologically differentiated microbial communities and their populations. Planktonic and sediment-associated communities exhibited differing ecological characteristics including community sizes, evenness and richness. pH and temperature influenced microbial community composition among springs, but within-spring partitioning of taxa into sediment or planktonic communities was widespread, statistically supported (P<0.05) and could be best explained by the inferred metabolic strategies of the partitioned taxa. Microaerophilic genera of the Aquificales predominated in many of the planktonic communities. In contrast, taxa capable of mineral-based metabolism such as S(o) oxidation/reduction or Fe-oxide reduction predominated in sediment communities. These results indicate that ecological differentiation within thermal spring habitats is common across a range of spring geochemistry and is influenced by the availability of dissolved nutrients and minerals that can be used in metabolism. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVES: Although asbestos has been recognised as a strong carcinogen, many asbestos minerals exist in concrete masses, and the health risks of these materials remain inconclusive. Nephrite jade is a concrete mass of amphibole that consists of asbestiform and non-asbestiform particles. The objective of the study was to explore the carcinogenetic effect of nephrite.METHODS: We examined cancer mortality between 1979 and 2011 in Fengtian, where nephrite was mass produced from 1970 to 1980, and calculated standardised mortality ratios (SMRs).RESULTS: We observed significantly elevated mortality risks for cancer of the hypopharynx (SMR 2.31; 95% CI 1.37 to 3.65), larynx (SMR 2.51; 95% CI 1.55 to 3.83), oesophagus (SMR 2.04; 95% CI 1.62 to 2.54) and stomach (SMR 1.38; 95% CI 1.17 to 1.63). This study analysed the lengths, widths, structures, chemical compositions, aerodynamic diameters and distributions of elongated mineral particles (EMPs) in airways. The majority of the EMPs (68%) were short (<5\xe2\x80\x85\xce\xbcm) and thin (<0.5\xe2\x80\x85\xc2\xb5m), and possessed asbestiform structures. The median aerodynamic diameter of the EMPs was 1.2\xe2\x80\x85\xce\xbcm. The total deposition proportion in airways was 51.3%. The major deposition sites were the head airway (37.5%), followed by the alveolar region (10.6%) and the tracheobronchial region (3.2%).CONCLUSIONS: The results have shown an association between EMPs and increased risk of respiratory and digestive cancers. Further research is needed that includes information on smoking habits and exposure to asbestos. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objective of this study was to investigate the specific role of nitric oxide (NO) in the early response of hulless barley roots to copper (Cu) stress. We used the fluorescent probe diaminofluorescein-FM diacetate to establish NO localization, and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-special labeling and histochemical procedures for the detection of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the root apex. An early production of NO was observed in Cu-treated root tips of hulless barley, but the detection of NO levels was decreased by supplementation with a NO scavenger, 2-phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (c-PTIO). Application of sodium nitroprusside (a NO donor) relieved Cu-induced root inhibition, ROS accumulation and oxidative damage, while c-PTIO treatment had a synergistic effect with Cu and further enhanced ROS levels and oxidative stress. In addition, the Cu-dependent increase in activities of superoxide dismutase, peroxidase and ascorbate peroxidase were further enhanced by exogenous NO, but application of c-PTIO decreased the activities of catalase and ascorbate peroxidase in Cu-treated roots. Subsequently, cell death was observed in root tips and was identified as a type of programed cell death (PCD) by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling assay. The addition of NO prevented the increase of cell death in root tips, whereas inhibiting NO accumulation further increased the number of cells undergoing PCD. These results revealed that NO production is an early response of hulless barley roots to Cu stress and that NO contributes to Cu tolerance in hulless barley possibly by modulating antioxidant defense, subsequently reducing oxidative stress and PCD in root tips. labels: #Minerals'
b'Nano zero-valent iron (nZVI) is currently investigated as a stabilising amendment for contaminated soils. The effect of pH (4-8) and time (48 and 192\xc2\xa0h) on the behaviour of nZVI-treated Pb-Zn and As-contaminated soil samples was assessed. Additionally, soil leachates were subsequently used to study the direct interaction between soil solution components and nZVI particles in terms of mineralogical changes and contaminant retention. A typical U-shaped leaching trend as a function of pH was observed for Cd, Pb and Zn, while As was released predominantly under alkaline conditions. Oxidising conditions prevailed, so pH was the key controlling parameter rather than redox conditions. Generally, longer contact time resulted in increased soluble concentrations of metal(loid)s. However, the stabilisation effect of nZVI was only observed after the direct soil leachate-nZVI interactions, showing enhanced redox and sorption processes for the studied metals. A significant decrease of dissolved As concentrations was observed for both experimental soils, but with different efficiencies depending on neutralisation capacity, organic matter content or solid fractionation of As related to the origin of the soils. Scorodite (FeAsO4\xc2\xb72H2O) was predicted as a potential solubility-controlling mineral phase for As. Sorption of metal(loid)s onto secondary Fe- and Al-(oxyhydr)oxides (predicted to precipitate at pH\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa05) represents an important scavenger mechanism. Moreover, transmission electron microscopy confirmed the retention of Zn and Pb under near-neutral and alkaline conditions by newly formed Fe oxides or aluminosilicates. This study shows that the efficiency of nZVI application strongly depends not only on soil pH-Eh conditions and contaminant type, but also on the presence of organic matter and other compounds such as Al/Fe/Mn oxyhydroxides and clay minerals. labels: #Minerals'
b'We report on stable Fe isotope fractionation during microbial and chemical reduction of structural Fe(III) in nontronite NAu-1. (56)Fe/(54)Fe fractionation factors between aqueous Fe(II) and structural Fe(III) ranged from -1.2 to +0.8\xe2\x80\xb0. Microbial (Shewanella oneidensis and Geobacter sulfurreducens) and chemical (dithionite) reduction experiments revealed a two-stage process. Stage 1 was characterized by rapid reduction of a finite Fe(III) pool along the edges of the clay particles, accompanied by a limited release to solution of Fe(II), which partially adsorbed onto basal planes. Stable Fe isotope compositions revealed that electron transfer and atom exchange (ETAE) occurred between edge-bound Fe(II) and octahedral (structural) Fe(III) within the clay lattice, as well as between aqueous Fe(II) and structural Fe(III) via a transient sorbed phase. The isotopic fractionation factors decreased with increasing extent of reduction as a result of the depletion of the finite bioavailable Fe(III) pool. During stage 2, microbial reduction was inhibited while chemical reduction continued. However, further ETAE between aqueous Fe(II) and structural Fe(III) was not observed. Our results imply that the pool of bioavailable Fe(III) is restricted to structural Fe sites located near the edges of the clay particles. Blockage of ETAE distinguishes Fe(III) reduction of layered clay minerals from that of Fe oxyhydroxides, where accumulation of structural Fe(II) is much more limited. labels: #Minerals'
b'Cellulose electrospun nanofibrous mats coated with bilayers of chitosan (CS) and epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) or with bilayers of CS-rectorite (REC) composite (CS-REC) and EGCG were fabricated via layer-by-layer (LBL) self-assembly technique. LBL-structured cellulose nanofibers still maintained three-dimension fiber structure according to the observation from scanning electron microscopy images. The average diameter of nanofibers were enlarged with the addition of REC. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy results confirmed the deposition of CS and CS-REC onto the corresponding mats. The tensile strength and rate of elongation at break of LBL-structured nanofibers had no difference from those of uncoated nanofibers. The encapsulation efficiency and loading capacity of nanofibers were enhanced in the presence of REC. In addition the in-vitro cumulative release profiles of EGCG indicate that the addition of REC delayed the release of EGCG. Antimicrobial assay demonstrated the inhibitory effects of CS and EGCG on the growth of Staphylococcus aureus. Meanwhile the CS-REC composites improved the antimicrobial effects of CS and EGCG by adsorption of bacteria to the surface of REC then enhancement of exposure of bacteria to EGCG and the matrix of CS. labels: #Minerals'
b'Terrestrial isopods moult first the posterior and then the anterior half of the body, allowing for storage and recycling of CaCO3. We used synchrotron-radiation microtomography to estimate mineral content within skeletal segments in sequential moulting stages of Porcellio scaber. The results suggest that all examined cuticular segments contribute to storage and recycling, however, to varying extents. The mineral within the hepatopancreas after moult suggests an uptake of mineral from the ingested exuviae. The total maximum loss of mineral was 46% for the anterior and 43% for the posterior cuticle. The time course of resorption of mineral and mineralisation of the new cuticle suggests storage and recycling of mineral in the posterior and anterior cuticle. The mineral in the anterior pereiopods decreases by 25% only. P. scaber has long legs and can run fast; therefore, a less mineralised and thus lightweight cuticle in pereiopods likely serves to lower energy consumption during escape behaviour. Differential demineralisation occurs in the head cuticle, in which the cornea of the complex eyes remains completely mineralised. The partes incisivae of the mandibles are mineralised before the old cuticle is demineralised and shed. Probably, this enables the animal to ingest the old exuviae after each half moult. labels: #Minerals'
b'In a 4 \xc3\x97 4 Latin square design (24-d periods), 4 ruminally cannulated Hereford \xc3\x97 Angus/Simmental heifers were used to evaluate the effect of increasing levels of monensin concentration on DMI, ruminal fermentation, short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) absorption across the reticulorumen, and total tract barrier function. Heifers were fed a barley-based finishing diet (76% rolled barley grain, 12% barley silage, 8% mineral and vitamin supplement, and 4% canola meal) containing 0, 22, 33 or 48 mg/kg monensin. Urinary recovery of Cr-EDTA was used as an indicator of total tract barrier function (d 18 to 20). Days 20 to 23 were used to evaluate ruminal fermentation and total tract digestibility measurements, and SCFA absorption was measured using the temporarily isolated and washed reticulorumen technique on d 24. Data were analyzed using PROC MIXED of SAS with linear and quadratic contrasts to evaluate the effect of increasing monensin dose. Increasing monensin linearly decreased DMI (10.0, 9.9, 9.3, and 9.1 kg/d for diets containing 0, 22, 33 or 48 mg/kg monensin, respectively; = 0.01) but did not affect the variation in DMI among days. Urinary Cr-EDTA recovery was not ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0. 61) affected by increasing dose of monensin, nor was ruminal pH (mean, minimum, maximum, duration less than 5.5, and area under curve; \xe2\x89\xa5 0.21). The acetate-to-propionate ratio linearly decreased (1.9, 1.8, 1.4, and 1.3 for diets containing 0, 22, 33 or 48 mg/kg monensin, respectively; = 0.03) with increasing monensin. There was no response ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0. 17) for the rate of SCFA absorption with monensin concentration. Total tract ethanol soluble carbohydrate digestibility linearly increased (77.2, 84.7, 88.0, and 94.0% for diets containing 0, 22, 33 or 48 mg/kg monensin, respectively; = 0.003) whereas starch digestibility quadratically responded (93.8, 93.9, 88.0, and 94.0% for diets containing 0, 22, 33 or 48 mg/kg monensin, respectively;<0.001), where 33 mg/kg inclusion of monensin had a minimal value. The results from this study indicate that in addition to the known effects of monensin to reduce DMI and the acetate:propionate ratio, monensin inclusion does not affect ruminal pH, SCFA absorption, or total tract barrier function. labels: #Minerals'
b"Product quality is a high priority for the beef industry because of its importance as a major driver of consumer demand for beef and the ability of the industry to improve it. A 2-prong approach based on implementation of a genetic program to improve eating quality and a system to communicate eating quality and increase the probability that consumers' eating quality expectations are met is outlined. The objectives of this study were 1) to identify the best carcass and meat composition traits to be used in a selection program to improve eating quality and 2) to develop a relatively small number of classes that reflect real and perceptible differences in eating quality that can be communicated to consumers and identify a subset of carcass and meat composition traits with the highest predictive accuracy across all eating quality classes. Carcass traits, meat composition, including Warner-Bratzler shear force (WBSF), intramuscular fat content (IMFC), trained sensory panel scores, and mineral composition traits of 1,666 Angus cattle were used in this study. Three eating quality indexes, EATQ1, EATQ2, and EATQ3, were generated by using different weights for the sensory traits (emphasis on tenderness, flavor, and juiciness, respectively). The best model for predicting eating quality explained 37%, 9%, and 19% of the variability of EATQ1, EATQ2, and EATQ3, and 2 traits, WBSF and IMFC, accounted for most of the variability explained by the best models. EATQ1 combines tenderness, juiciness, and flavor assessed by trained panels with 0.60, 0.15, and 0.25 weights, best describes North American consumers, and has a moderate heritability (0.18 \xc2\xb1 0.06). A selection index (I= -0.5[WBSF] + 0.3[IMFC]) based on phenotypic and genetic variances and covariances can be used to improve eating quality as a correlated trait. The 3 indexes (EATQ1, EATQ2, and EATQ3) were used to generate 3 equal (33.3%) low, medium, and high eating quality classes, and linear combinations of traits that best predict class membership were estimated using a predictive discriminant analysis. The best predictive model to classify new observations into low, medium, and high eating quality classes defined by the EATQ1 index included WBSF, IMFC, HCW, and marbling score and resulted in a total error rate of 47.06%, much lower than the 60.74% error rate when the prediction of class membership was based on the USDA grading system. The 2 best predictors were WBSF and IMFC, and they accounted for 97.2% of the variability explained by the best model. labels: #Minerals"
b'Dramatic changes in molecular structure, degradation pathway, and porosity of biochar are observed at pyrolysis temperatures ranging from 250 to 550 \xc2\xb0C when bamboo biomass is pretreated by iron-sulfate-clay slurries (iron-clay biochar), as compared to untreated bamboo biochar. Electron microscopy analysis of the biochar reveals the infusion of mineral species into the pores of the biochar and the formation of mineral nanostructures. Quantitative (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy shows that the presence of the iron clay prevents degradation of the cellulosic fraction at pyrolysis temperatures of 250 \xc2\xb0C, whereas at higher temperatures (350-550 \xc2\xb0C), the clay promotes biomass degradation, resulting in an increase in both the concentrations of condensed aromatic, acidic, and phenolic carbon species. The porosity of the biochar, as measured by NMR cryoporosimetry, is altered by the iron-clay pretreatment. In the presence of the clay, at lower pyrolysis temperatures, the biochar develops a higher pore volume, while at higher temperature, the presence of clay causes a reduction in the biochar pore volume. The most dramatic reduction in pore volume is observed in the kaolinite-infiltrated biochar at 550 \xc2\xb0C, which is attributed to the blocking of the mesopores (2-50 nm pore) by the nonporous metakaolinite formed from kaolinite. labels: #Minerals'
b'Alhydwan (Boerhavia elegana Choisy) seed flour was evaluated for chemical and nutritional composition, and functional properties in a pursuit to identify an innovative plant with high nutraceuticals value which could be exploited in other food applications. The flour was found to be rich in dietary fiber (30.13%), protein (14.60%), crude fat (11.49%), carbohydrates (30.77%), and ash (6.88%) and encompassed adequate amounts of essential amino acids and minerals, whereas, sucrose constituted 71.3% of total sugar contents. Vitamins analysis revealed that flour is rich in water-soluble vitamins such as Thiamin (B1), Riboflavin (B2) and Niacin (B3), to the amounts of 19.3, 8.2 and 2.3mg/100g, respectively. Results on functional properties demonstrated high water and oil absorption capacities of 6.31 and 2.43g/g, respectively. Foaming capacity, foam stability and emulsion capacity were 9.35%, 6.90%, and 29.60%, respectively. It can be concluded that alhydwan is an excellent food material with a high nutritional value. labels: #Minerals'
b'Thirteen samples representing five species were collected from different provinces of Southwest China, and their chemical composition, antihyperglycemic activity, and antioxidant activity were evaluated. These mushrooms had high crude protein (21.72-30.59g/100g dw) and total carbohydrate (49.18-62.58g/100g dw) contents, but low crude fat contents (1.96-7.87g/100g dw). They also accumulated notable quantities of potassium, zinc, sodium, magnesium and copper from the soil. The potassium content, in particular, was 18.75-39.21 times that found in the soil at the collection site. The natural habitat of these mushrooms, especially the mineral content of the soil, seems to have more influence on the mineral content of these mushrooms than their species. Most of the samples possessed antihyperglycemic and antioxidant activities. Suillellus luridus showed the highest antioxidant activity and antihyperglycemic activities, suggesting that S. luridus shows potential for development as a dietary nutritional supplement. labels: #Minerals'
b'PURPOSE: To assess the benefits and tolerability of a dietary supplement based on omega-3 fatty acids to relieve dry eye symptoms.METHODS: A total of 1,419 patients (74.3% women, mean age 58.9 years) with dry eye syndrome using artificial tears participated in a 12-week prospective study. Patients were instructed to take 3 capsules/day of the nutraceutical formulation (Brudysec(\xc2\xae) 1.5 g). Study variables were dry eye symptoms (scratchy and stinging sensation, eye redness, grittiness, painful and tired eyes, grating sensation, and blurry vision), conjunctival hyperemia, tear breakup time (TBUT), Schrimer I test, and Oxford grading scheme.RESULTS: At 12 weeks, each dry eye symptom improved significantly (P<0.001), and the use of artificial tears decreased significantly from 3.77 (standard deviation [SD] =2.08) at baseline to 3.45 (SD =1.72) (P<0.01). In addition, the Schirmer test scores and the TBUT increased significantly, and there was an increase in patients grading 0-I in the Oxford scale and a decrease of those grading IV-V. Significant differences in improvements of dry eye symptoms were also found in compliant versus noncompliant patients as well as in those with moderate/severe versus none/mild conjunctival hyperemia.CONCLUSION: Oral \xcf\x89-3 fatty acids supplementation was an effective treatment for dry eye symptoms. labels: #Minerals'
b"The distribution, accumulation and circulation of oxygen and hydrogen in Earth's interior dictate the geochemical evolution of the hydrosphere, atmosphere and biosphere. The oxygen-rich atmosphere and iron-rich core represent two end-members of the oxygen-iron (O-Fe) system, overlapping with the entire pressure-temperature-composition range of the planet. The extreme pressure and temperature conditions of the deep interior alter the oxidation states, spin states and phase stabilities of iron oxides, creating new stoichiometries, such as Fe4O5 (ref. 5) and Fe5O6 (ref. 6). Such interactions between O and Fe dictate Earth's formation, the separation of the core and mantle, and the evolution of the atmosphere. Iron, in its multiple oxidation states, controls the oxygen fugacity and oxygen budget, with hydrogen having a key role in the reaction of Fe and O (causing iron to rust in humid air). Here we use first-principles calculations and experiments to identify a highly stable, pyrite-structured iron oxide (FeO2) at 76 gigapascals and 1,800 kelvin that holds an excessive amount of oxygen. We show that the mineral goethite, FeOOH, which exists ubiquitously as 'rust' and is concentrated in bog iron ore, decomposes under the deep lower-mantle conditions to form FeO2 and release H2. The reaction could cause accumulation of the heavy FeO2-bearing patches in the deep lower mantle, upward migration of hydrogen, and separation of the oxygen and hydrogen cycles. This process provides an alternative interpretation for the origin of seismic and geochemical anomalies in the deep lower mantle, as well as a sporadic O2 source for the Great Oxidation Event over two billion years ago that created the present oxygen-rich atmosphere. labels: #Minerals"
b'Chemical immobilization by phosphates has been widely and successfully applied to treat Pb in wastewater and contaminated soils. Pb in wastewaters and soils, however, always coexists with other heavy metals and their competitive reactions with phosphates have not been quantitatively and systematically studied. In this approach, immobilization of Pb, Zn, and Cd by mono-, di-, and tripotassium phosphate (KH2PO4, K2HPO4, and K3PO4) was observed in the single- and ternary-metals solutions. The immobilization rates of the three metals were determined by the residual concentration. The mineral composition and structure of the precipitates were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The results indicated that competitive reaction occurred in Pb-Zn-Cd ternary system, with immobilization rates decrease of<3.6%,<78%, and<89% for Pb, Zn and Cd (molar ratios of P: metal<1), respectively, compared to single metal system. The reaction of Pb with three phosphates exhibited intense competitiveness and the phosphates had a stronger affinity for Pb when Cl(-) was added. Pb-phosphate minerals formed by KH2PO4 with the better crystalline characteristics and largest size were very stable with a low dissolution rate (<0.02%) in the solution of pH 2.88, compared to K2HPO4 and K3PO4. This study demonstrated that Pb could be firstly and effectively immobilized by phosphates in multi-metal solutions containing Pb, Zn and Cd. Moreover, the research provided the insight of the importance of phosphate with low pH (e.g. KH2PO4) and the presence of Cl(-) for more efficient immobilization of Pb in the multi-metals pollution system. labels: #Minerals'
b'The mineralization of collagen scaffolds can improve their mechanical properties and biocompatibility, thereby providing an appropriate microenvironment for bone regeneration. The primary purpose of the present study is to fabricate a synergistically intra- and extrafibrillar mineralized collagen scaffold, which has many advantages in terms of biocompatibility, biomechanical properties, and further osteogenic potential. In this study, mineralized collagen scaffolds were fabricated using a traditional mineralization method (ie, immersed in simulated body fluid) as a control group and using a biomimetic method based on the polymer-induced liquid precursor process as an experimental group. In the polymer-induced liquid precursor process, a negatively charged polymer, carboxymethyl chitosan (CMC), was used to stabilize amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP) to form nanocomplexes of CMC/ACP. Collagen scaffolds mineralized based on the polymer-induced liquid precursor process were in gel form such that nanocomplexes of CMC/ACP can easily be drawn into the interstices of the collagen fibrils. Scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy were used to examine the porous micromorphology and synergistic mineralization pattern of the collagen scaffolds. Compared with simulated body fluid, nanocomplexes of CMC/ACP significantly increased the modulus of the collagen scaffolds. The results of in vitro experiments showed that the cell count and differentiated degrees in the experimental group were higher than those in the control group. Histological staining and micro-computed tomography showed that the amount of new bone regenerated in the experimental group was larger than that in the control group. The biomimetic mineralization will assist us in fabricating a novel collagen scaffold for clinical applications. labels: #Minerals'
b'An understanding of crystallisation within saline effluents is important for the design of both brine crystallisers and brine disposal ponds. In this work, crystallisation of a saline effluent concentrate from the Australian dairy industry has been examined at 22\xc2\xa0wt% and 30\xc2\xa0wt% total solids and at temperatures between 10 and 70\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C. The precipitation occurs more rapidly at higher temperatures. This trend is dictated by precipitation of calcium phosphate salts, albeit the major constituents of the mixture are NaCl and lactose. The crystallisation induction time can be shortened by introducing cavitation induced by ultrasound. In particular, the use of two short acoustic pulses between 3.7\xc2\xa0J/g and 16\xc2\xa0J/g at 20\xc2\xa0kHz spaced ten minutes apart has maximum impact upon both induction time and crystal size. It is believed that the first ultrasound pulse either generates new nuclei or enhances the mass transfer of solute toward the surface of sub-micron growing crystals. Conversely, the second pulse disrupts the growing crystals and forms secondary nuclei. The ultrasound cannot shift the solution equilibrium and so is not able to improve the low crystal yield. To increase this total yield, further evaporation is necessary. The work provides direction to personnel in the dairy industry of the feasibility of brine crystallisation with respect to energy demand and solid recovery. labels: #Minerals'
b'PURPOSE: To study the tolerance and biocompatibility of mineral pigments for corneal pigmentation histopathologically and immunologically in an experimental animal model.METHODS: Manual intralamellar keratopigmentation was performed in 28 New Zealand white rabbits using micronized mineral pigments. Histopathological examination was performed 3 months after the surgery to determine the level of pigment diffusion, the level of inflammation, and the presence/absence of neovascularization. An immunological analysis was also performed.RESULTS: No pigment diffusion or changes in color, inflammation, or neovascularization were detected in the treated eyes. Histopathological examination corroborated clinical results regarding inflammation. Pigmented corneas showed a good cosmetic appearance without signs of ocular toxicity. From the immunological perspective, the pigments do not generate an inflammatory response in the rabbit cornea or in vitro.CONCLUSIONS: Micronized mineral pigments could be a valid alternative treatment for corneal pigmentation. Manual intralamellar keratopigmentation technique presented good cosmetic appearance without adverse effects in the treated eyes. labels: #Minerals'
b"UNLABELLED: Hypersaline lakes are characteristic for Western Australia and display a rare combination of geochemical and mineralogical properties that make these lakes potential analogues for past conditions on Mars. In our study, we focused on the geochemistry and mineralogy of Lake Orr and Lake Whurr. While both lakes are poor in organic carbon (<1%), the sediments' pH values differ and range from 3.8 to 4.8 in Lake Orr and from 5.4 to 6.3 in Lake Whurr sediments. Lake Whurr sediments were dominated by orange and red sediment zones in which the main Fe minerals were identified as hematite, goethite, and tentatively jarosite and pyrite. Lake Orr was dominated by brownish and blackish sediments where the main Fe minerals were goethite and another paramagnetic Fe(III)-phase that could not be identified. Furthermore, a likely secondary Fe(II)-phase was observed in Lake Orr sediments. The mineralogy of these two salt lakes in the sampling area is strongly influenced by events such as flooding, evaporation, and desiccation, processes that explain at least to some extent the observed differences between Lake Orr and Lake Whurr. The iron mineralogy of Lake Whurr sediments and the high salinity make this lake a suitable analogue for Meridiani Planum on Mars, and in particular the tentative identification of pyrite in Lake Whurr sediments has implications for the interpretation of the Fe mineralogy of Meridiani Planum sediments.KEY WORDS: Western Australia-Salt lakes-Jarosite-Hematite-Pyrite-Mars analogue. Astrobiology 16, 525-538. labels: #Minerals"
b'The nature of As-Al-Fe co-precipitates aged for 120 days are investigated in detail by High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscopy (HRTEM), Scanning TEM (STEM), electron diffraction, Energy Dispersive X-Ray Spectroscopy (EDS), Electron Energy-Loss Spectroscopy (EELS), and Energy Filtered Transmission Electron Microscopy (EFTEM). The Al present in magnetite is shown to favour As incorporation (up to 1.10\xc2\xa0wt%) relative to Al-free magnetite and Al-goethite, but As uptake by Al-magnetite decreases with increasing Al substitution (3.53-11.37\xc2\xa0mol% Al). Arsenic-bearing magnetite and goethite mesocrystals (MCs) are formed by oriented aggregation (OA) of primary nanoparticles (NPs). Well-crystalline magnetite likely formed by Otswald ripening was predominant in the Al-free system. The As content in Al-goethite MCs (having approximately 13% substituted Al) was close to the EDS detection limit (0.1\xc2\xa0wt% As), but was below detection in Al-goethites with 23.00-32.19\xc2\xa0mol% Al. Our results show for the first time the capacity of Al-magnetite to incorporate more As than Al-free magnetite, and the role of Al in favouring OA-based crystal growth under the experimental conditions, and therefore As retention in the formed MCs. The proposed mechanism of As incorporation involves adsorption of As onto the newly formed NPs. Arsenic is then trapped in the MCs as they grow by self-assembly OA upon attachment of the NPs. We conclude that Al may diffuse to the crystal faces with high surface energy to reduce the total energy of the system during the attachment events, thus favouring the oriented aggregation. labels: #Minerals'
b'Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) have been recognized as a new strategy for maxillary sinus floor elevation. However, little is known concerning the effect of the biomechanical pressure (i.e., sinus pressure, masticatory pressure, and respiration) on the differentiation of BM-MSCs and the formation of new bone during maxillary sinus floor elevation. The differentiation of BM-MSCs into osteoblasts was examined in vitro under cyclic compressive pressure using the Flexcell\xc2\xae pressure system, and by immunohistochemical analysis, qRT-PCR, and Western blot. Micro-CT was used to detect bone formation and allow image reconstruction of the entire maxillary sinus floor elevation area. Differentiation of BM-MSCs into osteoblasts was significantly increased under cyclic compressive pressure. The formation of new bone was enhanced after implantation of the pressured complex of BM-MSCs and Bio-Oss during maxillary sinus floor elevation. The pressured complex of BM-MSCs and Bio-Oss promoted new bone formation and maturation in the rabbit maxillary sinus. Stem cell therapy combined with this tissue engineering technique could be effectively used in maxillary sinus elevation and bone regeneration. labels: #Minerals'
b"This work focuses on the influence of different parameters on the efficiency of steel slag carbonation in slurry phase under ambient temperature. In the first part, a response surface methodology was used to identify the effect and the interactions of the gas pressure, liquid/solid (L/S) ratio, gas/liquid ratio (G/L), and reaction time on the CO2 removed/sample and to optimize the parameters. In the second part, the parameters' effect on the dissolution of CO2 and its conversion into carbonates were studied more in detail. The results show that the pressure and the G/L ratio have a positive effect on both the dissolution and the conversion of CO2. These results have been correlated with the higher CO2 mass introduced in the reactor. On the other hand, an important effect of the L/S ratio on the overall CO2 removal and more specifically on the carbonate precipitation has been identified. The best results were obtained L/S ratios of 4:1 and 10:1 with respectively 0.046 and 0.052 gCO2 carbonated/g sample. These yields were achieved after 10\xc2\xa0min reaction, at ambient temperature, and 10.68\xc2\xa0bar of total gas pressure following direct gas treatment. labels: #Minerals"
b'Returning crop residue may result in nutrient reduction in soil in the first few years. A two-year field experiment was conducted to assess whether this negative effect is alleviated by improved crop residue management (CRM). Nine treatments (3 CRM and 3\xc2\xa0N fertilizer rates) were used. The CRM treatments were (1) R0: 100\xc2\xa0% of the N using mineral fertilizer with no crop residues return; (2) R: crop residue plus mineral fertilizer as for the R0; and (3) Rc: crop residue plus 83\xc2\xa0% of the N using mineral and 17\xc2\xa0% manure fertilizer. Each CRM received N fertilizer rates at 270, 360, and 450\xc2\xa0kg\xc2\xa0N\xc2\xa0ha(-1) year(-1). At the end of the experiment, soil NO3-N was reduced by 33\xc2\xa0% from the R relative to the R0 treatment, while the Rc treatment resulted in a 21 to 44\xc2\xa0% increase in occluded particulate organic C and N, and 80\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C extracted dissolved organic N, 19 to 32\xc2\xa0% increase in microbial biomass C and protease activity, and higher monounsaturated phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA):saturated PLFA ratio from stimulating growth of indigenous bacteria when compared with the R treatment. Principal component analysis showed that the Biolog and PLFA profiles in the three CRM treatments were different from each other. Overall, these properties were not influenced by the used N fertilizer rates. Our results indicated that application of 17\xc2\xa0% of the total N using manure in a field with crop residues return was effective for improving potential plant N availability and labile soil organic matter, primarily due to a shift in the dominant microorganisms. labels: #Minerals'
b"UNLABELLED: Methacrylated gellan-gum (GG-MA) alone and combined with collagen type I (Coll) is suggested here for the first time as a cell-laden injectable biomaterial for bone regeneration. On-chip high-throughput studies allowed rapidly assessing the suitability of 15 biomaterials/media combinations for the osteodifferentiation of human adipose stem cells (hASCs). Hydrogels composed solely of GG-MA (GG100:0Coll) led hASCs from three different donors into the osteogenic lineage after 21days of cell culture, in the absence of any osteogenic or osteoconductive factors. Hydrogels containing more than 30% of Coll promoted increased cellular proliferation and led hASCs into osteogenic differentiation under basal conditions. Studies using isolated individual hydrogels - excluding eventual on-chip crosstalk - and standard biochemical assays corroborated such findings. The formation of focal adhesions of hASCs on GG100:0Coll hydrogels was verified. We hypothesize that the hydrogels osteogenic effect could be guided by mechanotransduction phenomena. Indeed, the hydrogels showed elastic modulus in ranges previously reported as osteoinductive and the inhibition of the actin-myosin contractility pathway impaired hASCs' osteodifferentiation. GG-MA hydrogels also did not promote hASCs' adipogenesis while used in basal conditions. Overall, GG-MA showed promising properties as an innovative and off-the shelf self-inducing osteogenic injectable biomaterial.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Methacrylated gellan gum (GG-MA) is here suggested for the first time as a widely available polysaccharide to easily prepare hydrogels with cell adhesion properties and capability of inducing the autonomous osteogenic differentiation of human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs). GG-MA was processed as stand-alone hydrogels or in different combinations with collage type I. All hydrogel formulations elicited the osteogenic differentiation of hASCs, independently of the addition of any osteoconductive or osteogenic stimuli, i.e. in basal/growth medium. Effective cellular adhesion to methacrylated gellan gum hydrogels in the absence of any cell-ligand peptide/protein was here proved for the first time. Moreover, we showed that the encapsulated hASCs underwent osteogenic differentiation due to a mechanotransduction phenomenon dependent on the actin-myosin contractility pathway. labels: #Minerals"
b'BACKGROUND: Mineral Pitch (MP) is a dark brown coloured humic matter originating from high altitude rocks. It is an Ayurvedic medicinal food, commonly used by the people of the Himalayan regions of Nepal and India for various body ailments.METHODS: The Huh-7 cells were treated with different concentrations of MP for 24\xc2\xa0h, and both apoptosis and proliferation was determined by the TUNEL and MTT assays respectively. The formation of ROS and nitric oxide was analysed by DCFH-DA and Griess reagent respectively. The expression of miRNA-21 and miRNA-22 were checked by the real time PCR. Effect of miRNA-22 on proliferation and c-myc was studied by over-expressing miRNA-22 premiRs in Huh-7 cells.RESULTS: We found that MP enhanced anti-cancer effects by inducing apoptosis and inhibiting proliferation. MP induced both ROS and NO, upon neutralizing them, there was a partial recovery of apoptosis and proliferation. MP also induced miRNA-22 expression, while miRNA-21 expression was inhibited. Over-expression of miRNA-22 resulted in a significant inhibition of proliferation. miRNA-22 directly targeted c-myc gene, thereby inhibited proliferation. These results clearly show that MP induces its anti-cancer activity by more than one pathway.CONCLUSION: The data clearly indicate that MP induced apoptosis via the production of ROS, and inhibited proliferation by inducing miRNA-22 and inhibiting miRNA-21 in Huh-7 cells. labels: #Minerals'
b'By adopting inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) combined with chemometric analysis technology, 23 kinds of minerals in four kinds of characteristic honey derived from Yunnan province were analyzed. The result showed that 21 kinds of mineral elements, namely Na, Mg, K, Ca, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Se, Sr, Mo, Cd, Sb, Ba, Tl and Pb, have significant differences among different varieties of honey. The results of principal component analysis (PCA) showed that the cumulative variance contribution rate of the first four main components reached 77.74%, seven kinds of elements (Mg, Ca, Mn, Co, Sr, Cd, Ba) from the first main component contained most of the honey information. Through the stepwise discriminant analysis, seven kinds of elements (Mg, K, Ca, Cr, Mn, Sr, Pb) were filtered. out and used to establish the discriminant function model, and the correct classification rates of the proposed model reached 90% and 86.7%, respectively, which showed elements contents could be effectively indicators to discriminate the four kinds characteristic honey in southern Yunnan Province. In view of all the honey samples were harvested from apiaries located at south Yunnan Province where have similar climate, soil and other environment conditions, the differences of the mineral elements contents for the honey samples mainly due to their corresponding nectariferous plant. Therefore, it is feasible to identify honey botanical source through the differences of mineral elements. labels: #Minerals'
b"To investigate the seasonal dynamics of soil organic carbon (SOC) mineralization in Xiaoxing'an Mountain, we incubated soil samples collected from virgin Korean pine forest and broad-leaved secondary forest in different seasons in the laboratory and measured the SOC mineralization rate and cumulative SOC mineralization (Cm). We employed simultaneous reaction model to describe C mineralization kinetics and estimated SOC mineralization parameters including soil easily mineralizable C (C1), potentially mineralizable C (C\xe2\x82\x80). We also analyzed the relations between Cm, C\xe2\x82\x81and their influencing factors. Results showed that the incubated SOC mineralization rate and Cm for 0-5 cm soil layer decreased from early spring to late autumn, while for 5-10 cm soil layer the seasonal variation was not statistically significant for both forest types. The C\xe2\x82\x81 in 0-5 and 5-10 cm soil layers varied from 42.92-92.18 and 19.23-32.95 mg kg\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9, respectively, while the C\xe2\x82\x80 in 0-5 and 5-10 cm soil layers varied from 863.92-3957.15 and 434.15-865.79 mg \xc2\xb7 kg\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9, respec- tively. Both C\xe2\x82\x81 and C\xe2\x82\x80 decreased from early spring to late autumn. The proportions of C\xe2\x82\x80 in SOC for two forest types were 0.74%-2.78% and 1.11%-1.84% in 0-5 and 5-10 cm soil layers, respectively, and decreased from early spring to late autumn, indicating that SOC tended to become more stable as a whole from spring to autumn. The Cm and C\xe2\x82\x80 were significantly positively correlated to in situ soil water content and hot water-extractable carbohydrate content, but were not correlated to in situ soil temperature and cool water-extractable carbohydrate content. We concluded that soil labile organic carbon, soil physical and chemical properties contributed to the seasonal dynamics of SOC mineralization in the forests. labels: #Minerals"
b'Rare earth elements (REEs) are critical and strategic materials in the defense, energy, electronics, and automotive industries. The reclamation of REEs from coal combustion fly ash has been proposed as a way to supplement REE mining. However, the typical REE contents in coal fly ash, particularly in the United States, have not been comprehensively documented or compared among the major types of coal feedstocks that determine fly ash composition. The objective of this study was to characterize a broad selection of U.S. fly ashes of varied geological origin in order to rank their potential for REE recovery. The total and nitric acid-extractable REE content for more than 100 ash samples were correlated with characteristics such as the major element content and coal basin to elucidate trends in REE enrichment. Average total REE content (defined as the sum of the lanthanides, yttrium, and scandium) for ashes derived from Appalachian sources was 591 mg kg(-1) and significantly greater than in ashes from Illinois and Powder River basin coals (403 and 337 mg kg(-1), respectively). The fraction of critical REEs (Nd, Eu, Tb, Dy, Y, and Er) in the fly ashes was 34-38% of the total and considerably higher than in conventional ores (typically less than 15%). Powder River Basin ashes had the highest extractable REE content, with 70% of the total REE recovered by heated nitric acid digestion. This is likely due to the higher calcium content of Powder River Basin ashes, which enhances their solubility in nitric acid. Sc, Nd, and Dy were the major contributors to the total REE value in fly ash, based on their contents and recent market prices. Overall, this study shows that coal fly ash production could provide a substantial domestic supply of REEs, but the feasibility of recovery depends on the development of extraction technologies that could be tailored to the major mineral content and origins of the feed coal for the ash. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: A daily mineral supplement is useful for those who are at risk of a deficiency. Some Western reports suggest that mineral supplement users have healthy behaviors and are not mineral-deficient. It is unknown whether the same phenomenon is observed in Japan where there is a different dietary culture. The aim of this study was to examine the characteristics of personal behaviors including food consumption nationwide among mineral supplement users from the National Health and Nutrition Survey in Japan 2003-2010.METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: Data were obtained from 16,275 adults aged 20-59 years who completed sociodemographic, health status, and 1-day household dietary assessments. Supplement users were compared with non-users. Logistic regression models were utilized to identify the characteristics of food consumption and calcium and iron supplement use, using the medium intake group as a reference.RESULTS: Overall, 2.1% and 1.4% of adults reported using calcium supplements and iron supplements, respectively. Calcium supplement users were more likely to be physically active, non-smokers, and eat less fat compared with non-users. Furthermore, they were more likely than non-users to consume a higher intake of calcium from foods such as tea, vegetables, seaweeds, and fruits. Iron supplement users were more likely than non-users to be non-smokers. These individuals tended to have a high intake of seaweeds and fruits.CONCLUSIONS: Japanese adults who had healthier behaviors were more likely to use mineral supplements, especially calcium. Mineral supplement users tended to choose healthy foods such as seaweeds and fruits, without considering their overall mineral consumption. labels: #Minerals'
b'The zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha is a well-established invasive model organism. Although extensively used in environmental sciences, virtually nothing is known of the molecular process of its shell calcification. By describing the microstructure, geochemistry and biochemistry/proteomics of the shell, the present study aims at promoting this species as a model organism in biomineralization studies, in order to establish a bridge with ecotoxicology, while sketching evolutionary conclusions. The shell of D. polymorpha exhibits the classical crossed-lamellar/complex crossed lamellar combination found in several heterodont bivalves, in addition to an external thin layer, the characteristics of which differ from what was described in earlier publication. We show that the shell selectively concentrates some heavy metals, in particular uranium, which predisposes D. polymorpha to local bioremediation of this pollutant. We establish the biochemical signature of the shell matrix, demonstrating that it interacts with the in vitro precipitation of calcium carbonate and inhibits calcium carbonate crystal formation, but these two properties are not strongly expressed. This matrix, although overall weakly glycosylated, contains a set of putatively calcium-binding proteins and a set of acidic sulphated proteins. 2D-gels reveal more than fifty proteins, twenty of which we identify by MS-MS analysis. We tentatively link the shell protein profile of D. polymorpha and the peculiar recent evolution of this invasive species of Ponto-Caspian origin, which has spread all across Europe in the last three centuries. labels: #Minerals'
b'Reprocessing magnetite-rich copper (Cu) tailings prompted a concern about arsenic (As) risks in seepage water and revegetated plants at Ernest Henry Cu Mine (EHM) in North Queensland, Australia, due to the closely coupled relationship between iron (Fe) minerals and As mobility. The magnetite removal alone significantly decreased the content of crystalline Fe minerals and the maximum arsenate (As(V)) sorption capacity of the resultant tailings. A glasshouse experiment with native grass Red Flinders (Iseilema Vaginiflorum) was conducted with the reprocessed (low magnetite (LM)) and original (high magnetite (HM)) tailings, which were amended with 5% sugarcane residue (SR) as a basal treatment in combination with 0, 1 and 5% pine-biochar (BC). The organic matter treatments and plant growth stimulated the formation of secondary Fe minerals. The amount of extractable amorphous Fe in the amended and revegetated HM tailings was significantly higher than those in the LM. Arsenic forms in the specifically sorbed and the sorbed by amorphous Fe oxides were significantly increased by the SR amendment in the LM tailings, but which were decreased in the HM, compared to the unamended tailings. Soluble As levels in the porewater of the LM under revegetation were significantly higher (300-1150\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0As\xc2\xa0L-1) than those (up to 45-90\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0As\xc2\xa0L-1) in HM tailings in the same treatment, which led to the higher As concentrations in the plants grown in the LM tailings. In particular, root As concentration (62-146\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1) in the LM tailings was almost a magnitude higher than those (8-17\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1) in the HM. The present results confirmed the initial expectation that the recovery of magnetite from the Cu tailings significantly elevated the risk of As solubility in the tailings by decreasing As sorption capacity and increasing soluble As levels. Thus, it would be beneficial to retain high contents of magnetite in the top layer (e.g., root zone) of the Cu tailings for managing As risk and revegetation in the future. labels: #Minerals'
b'In situ chemical oxidation (ISCO) has become a widely used technology for the remediation of soil and groundwater. Although peroxymonosulfate is not a common oxidant source for ISCO, its chemical structure is similar to the ISCO reagents hydrogen peroxide and persulfate, suggesting that peroxymonosulfate may have the beneficial properties of each of these oxidants. Peroxymonosulfate activation in the presence of subsurface minerals was examined as a basis for ISCO, and possible reactive species (hydroxyl radical, sulfate radical, and reductants+nucleophiles) generated in the mineral-activated peroxymonosulfate systems were investigated. Rates of peroxymonosulfate decomposition and generation rates of reactive species were studied in the presence of three iron oxides, one manganese oxide, and three soil fractions. The iron oxide hematite-activated peroxymonosulfate system most effectively degraded the hydroxyl radical probe nitrobenzene. Reductants+nucleophiles were not generated in mineral-activated peroxymonosulfate systems. Use of the probe compound anisole in conjunction with scavengers demonstrated that both sulfate radical and hydroxyl radical are generated in mineral-activated peroxymonosulfate systems. In order to confirm the activation of peroxymonosulfate by subsurface minerals, one natural soil and associated two soil fractions were evaluated as peroxymonosulfate catalysts. The natural soil did not effectively promote the generation of oxidants; however, the soil organic matter was found to promote the generation of reductants + nucleophiles. The results of this research show that peroxymonosulfate has potential as an oxidant source for ISCO applications, and would be most effective in treating halogenated contaminants when soil organic matter is present in the subsurface. labels: #Minerals'
b'Argentojarosite (AgFe3(SO4)2(OH)6) is formed as a secondary phase in Ag-catalyzed bioleaching of chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), but to date very little is known about the paragenesis or characteristics of this silver-containing compound. The purpose of this study was to synthesize argentojarosite via biological oxidation of 120mM ferrous sulfate by Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans. Because of its toxicity to A. ferrooxidans, Ag(+) (as AgNO3) was added to spent culture media (pH2) after complete oxidation of ferrous sulfate. Schwertmannite (ideally Fe8O8(OH)6(SO4)) was precipitated during the iron oxidation phase, and subsequent Ag(+) addition resulted in the formation of argentojarosite. Contact time (8h, 5d, and 14d) and Ag(+) concentration (0, 5, 20, and 40mM) were used as variables in these experiments. Synthesis of argentojarosite, schwertmannite and other mineral phases was confirmed through X-ray diffraction analysis. Additional analyses of solid-phase oxidation products included elemental composition, color and specific surface area. The sample synthesized in the presence of 40mM Ag(+) and with 14d contact time yielded an X-ray diffraction pattern of well crystallized argentojarosite, and its elemental composition closely matched the calculated Ag, Fe, and S contents of ideal argentojarosite. The color and surface area of the remaining samples were influenced by the presence of residual schwertmannite. This phase remained stable over the time course of 14d when no Ag(+) was present in the system. When equilibrations were extended to 42d, partial conversion of reference schwertmannite to goethite was noted in the absence of Ag. In the presence of 20mM or 40mM Ag over the same time course, some formation of argentojarosite was also noted. In this case, schwertmannite was the only source of Fe and SO4 for argentojarosite formation. labels: #Minerals'
b"This study evaluated serum and hair mineral and trace element levels as well as levels of other nutritional factors affecting growth and appetite in young children with non-organic failure to thrive (NOFTT) based on the presence or types of feeding difficulty (FD). Between August 2012 and July 2015, 136 children less than 6\xc2\xa0years of age with NOFTT were included. FD was diagnosed based on Wolfson criteria and divided into subtypes according to Chatoor's classification. Clinical data were reviewed, and serum and hair mineral levels were measured. Of all assessed serum and hair minerals, only hair sulfur contents differed significantly between subjects with and without infantile anorexia (39,392\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1 2211 vs. 40,332 \xc2\xb1 2551\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/g, P =\xc2\xa00.034). There were no differences in serum and hair mineral levels between children with and without sensory food aversion. Hair copper contents were significantly lower in children with FD of reciprocity (12.3\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa06.0 vs. 22.4\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa025.1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/g, P =\xc2\xa00.049). While hair zinc contents were also lower, the difference was not statistically significant (49.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa026.8 vs. 70.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa041.0\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/g, P =\xc2\xa00.055). Only hair manganese contents were significantly lower in children with posttraumatic FD (0.12\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.04 vs. 0.26\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.73\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/g, P =\xc2\xa00.037). In conclusion, there were no differences in most serum and hair mineral levels in children with NOFTT, except for relatively lower hair levels of sulfur, copper and possibly zinc, and manganese in infantile anorexia, reciprocity, and posttraumatic types of FD, respectively. labels: #Minerals"
b'We use uranium (U) isotope ratios to detect and quantify the extent of natural U reduction in groundwater across a roll front redox gradient. Our study was conducted at the Smith Ranch-Highland in situ recovery (ISR) U mine in eastern Wyoming, USA, where economic U deposits occur in the Paleocene Fort Union formation. To evaluate the fate of aqueous U in and adjacent to the ore body, we investigated the chemical composition and isotope ratios of groundwater samples from the roll-front type ore body and surrounding monitoring wells of a previously mined area. The (238)U/(235)U of groundwater varies by approximately 3\xe2\x80\xb0 and is correlated with U concentrations. Fluid samples down-gradient of the ore zone are the most depleted in (238)U and have the lowest U concentrations. Activity ratios of (234)U/(238)U are \xe2\x88\xbc5.5 up-gradient of the ore zone, \xe2\x88\xbc1.0 in the ore zone, and between 2.3 and 3.7 in the down-gradient monitoring wells. High-precision measurements of (234)U/(238)U and (238)U/(235)U allow for development of a conceptual model that evaluates both the migration of U from the ore body and the extent of natural attenuation due to reduction. We find that the premining migration of U down-gradient of the delineated ore body is minimal along eight transects due to reduction in or adjacent to the ore body, whereas two other transects show little or no sign of reduction in the down-gradient region. These results suggest that characterization of U isotopic ratios at the mine planning stage, in conjunction with routine geochemical analyses, can be used to identify where more or less postmining remediation will be necessary. labels: #Minerals'
b'A nanostructured mineral food supplement with a particle size of 60.0-120.0 nm was manufactured from phosphorite by ultrasonic dispersion. It was found that intragastric administration of nanostructures phosphorite to mice is relatively safe: clinical signs of intoxication appeared after a single administration of the preparation only at a dose of 90 mg/kg; a dose of 150 mg/kg caused death of 8% of mice, in which injuries of organs of the gastrointestinal tract were observed. When the preparation was administered subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intraperitoneally, small phosphorite conglomerates and inflammation of the surrounding tissues and organs were observed at the injection site. Death of 25% of animals was observed in the group of mice which received intraperitoneal injections of nanophosphorite at a dose of 200 mg/kg. labels: #Minerals'
b'UNLABELLED: Recent experimental data revealed a stiffening of aged cortical bone tissue, which could not be explained by common multiscale elastic material models. We explain this data by incorporating the role of mineral fusion via a new hierarchical modeling approach exploiting the asymptotic (periodic) homogenization (AH) technique for three-dimensional linear elastic composites. We quantify for the first time the stiffening that is obtained by considering a fused mineral structure in a softer matrix in comparison with a composite having non-fused cubic mineral inclusions. We integrate the AH approach in the Eshelby-based hierarchical mineralized turkey leg tendon model (Tiburtius et al 2014 Biomech.MODEL: Mechanobiol. 13 1003-23), which can be considered as a base for musculoskeletal mineralized tissue modeling. We model the finest scale compartments, i.e. the extrafibrillar space and the mineralized collagen fibril, by replacing the self-consistent scheme with our AH approach. This way, we perform a parametric analysis at increasing mineral volume fraction, by varying the amount of mineral that is fusing in the axial and transverse tissue directions in both compartments. Our effective stiffness results are in good agreement with those reported for aged human radius and support the argument that the axial stiffening in aged bone tissue is caused by the formation of a continuous mineral foam. Moreover, the proposed theoretical and computational approach supports the design of biomimetic materials which require an overall composite stiffening without increasing the amount of the reinforcing material. labels: #Minerals'
b'The focus of modelling in wastewater treatment is shifting from single unit to plant-wide scale. Plant-wide modelling approaches provide opportunities to study the dynamics and interactions of different transformations in water and sludge streams. Towards developing more general and robust simulation tools applicable to a broad range of wastewater engineering problems, this paper evaluates a plant-wide model built with sub-models from the Benchmark Simulation Model No. 2-P (BSM2-P) with an improved/expanded physico-chemical framework (PCF). The PCF includes a simple and validated equilibrium approach describing ion speciation and ion pairing with kinetic multiple minerals precipitation. Model performance is evaluated against data sets from a full-scale wastewater treatment plant, assessing capability to describe water and sludge lines across the treatment process under steady-state operation. With default rate kinetic and stoichiometric parameters, a good general agreement is observed between the full-scale datasets and the simulated results under steady-state conditions. Simulation results show differences between measured and modelled phosphorus as little as 4-15% (relative) throughout the entire plant. Dynamic influent profiles were generated using a calibrated influent generator and were used to study the effect of long-term influent dynamics on plant performance. Model-based analysis shows that minerals precipitation strongly influences composition in the anaerobic digesters, but also impacts on nutrient loading across the entire plant. A forecasted implementation of nutrient recovery by struvite crystallization (model scenario only), reduced the phosphorus content in the treatment plant influent (via centrate recycling) considerably and thus decreased phosphorus in the treated outflow by up to 43%. Overall, the evaluated plant-wide model is able to jointly describe the physico-chemical and biological processes, and is advocated for future use as a tool for design, performance evaluation and optimization of whole wastewater treatment plants. labels: #Minerals'
b'Birnessite minerals (layer-type MnO2), which bear both internal (cation vacancies) and external (particle edges) metal sorption sites, are important sinks of contaminants in soils and sediments. Although the particle edges of birnessite minerals often dominate the total reactive surface area, especially in the case of nanoscale crystallites, the metal sorption reactivity of birnessite particle edges remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the sorption selectivity of birnessite particle edges by combining Cd(ii) and Pb(ii) adsorption isotherms at pH 5.5 with surface structural characterization by differential pair distribution function (d-PDF) analysis. We compared the sorption reactivity of \xce\xb4-MnO2 to that of the nanomineral, 2-line ferrihydrite, which exhibits only external surface sites. Our results show that, whereas Cd(ii) and Pb(ii) both bind to birnessite layer vacancies, only Pb(ii) binds extensively to birnessite particle edges. For ferrihydrite, significant Pb(ii) adsorption to external sites was observed (roughly 20 mol%), whereas Cd(ii) sorption was negligible. These results are supported by bond valence calculations that show comparable degrees of saturation of oxygen atoms on birnessite and ferrihydrite particle edges. Therefore, we propose that the sorption selectivity of birnessite edges follows the same order of that reported previously for ferrihydrite: Ca(ii)<Cd(ii)<Ni(ii)<Zn(ii)<Cu(ii)<Pb(ii). labels: #Minerals'
b'We present a palaeoenvironmental study of the Castell\xc3\xb3 lagoon (NE Spain), an important archive for understanding long-term interactions between dynamic littoral ecosystems and human management. Combining geochemistry, mineralogy, ostracods, diatoms, pollen, non-pollen palynomorphs, charcoal and archaeo-historical datasets we reconstruct: 1) the transition of the lagoon from a marine to a marginal environment between ~3150 cal BC to the 17th century AD; 2) fluctuations in salinity; and 3) natural and anthropogenic forces contributing to these changes. From the Late Neolithic to the Medieval period the lagoon ecosystem was driven by changing marine influence and the land was mainly exploited for grazing, with little evidence for impact on the natural woodland. Land-use exploitation adapted to natural coastal dynamics, with maximum marine flooding hampering agropastoral activities between ~1550 and ~150 cal BC. In contrast, societies actively controlled the lagoon dynamics and become a major agent of landscape transformation after the Medieval period. The removal of littoral woodlands after the 8th century was followed by the expansion of agrarian and industrial activities. Regional mining and smelting activities polluted the lagoon with heavy metals from the ~11th century onwards. The expansion of the milling industry and of agricultural lands led to the channelization of the river Muga into the lagoon after ~1250 cal AD. This caused its transformation into a freshwater lake, increased nutrient load, and the infilling and drainage of a great part of the lagoon. By tracking the shift towards an anthropogenically-controlled system around ~750 yr ago, this study points out Mediterranean lagoons as ancient and heavily-modified systems, with anthropogenic impacts and controls covering multi-centennial and even millennial timescales. Finally, we contributed to the future construction of reliable seashell-based chronologies in NE Spain by calibrating the Banyuls-sur-Mer \xce\x94R offset with ceramic imports from the Emporiae archaeological site. labels: #Minerals'
b'Sediment denitrification rates seem to be lower in tropical environments than in temperate environments. Using the isotope pairing technique, we measured actual denitrification rates in the sediment of tropical coastal lagoons. To explain the low denitrification rates observed at all study sites (<5 \xce\xbcmol N2 m-2 h-1), we also evaluated potential oxygen (O2) consumption, potential nitrification, potential denitrification, potential anammox, and estimated dissimilatory nitrate (NO3-) reduction to ammonium (NH4+; DNRA) in the sediment. 15NO3- and 15NH4+ conversion was measured in oxic and anoxic slurries from the sediment surface. Sediment potential O2 consumption was used as a proxy for overall mineralization activity. Actual denitrification rates and different potential nitrogen (N) oxidation and reduction processes were significantly correlated with potential O2 consumption. The contribution of potential nitrification to total O2 consumption decreased from contributing 9% at sites with the lowest sediment mineralization rates to less than 0.1% at sites with the highest rates. NO3- reduction switched completely from potential denitrification to estimated DNRA. Ammonium oxidation and nitrite (NO2-) reduction by potential anammox contributed up to 3% in sediments with the lowest sediment mineralization rates. The majority of these patterns could be explained by variations in the microbial environments from stable and largely oxic conditions at low sediment mineralization sites to more variable conditions and the prevalences of anaerobic microorganisms at high sediment mineralization sites. Furthermore, the presence of algal and microbial mats on the sediment had a significant effect on all studied processes. We propose a theoretical model based on low and high sediment mineralization rates to explain the growth, activity, and distribution of microorganisms carrying out denitrification and DNRA in sediments that can explain the dominance or coexistence of DNRA and denitrification processes. The results presented here show that the potential activity of anaerobic nitrate-reducing organisms is not dependent on the availability of environmental NO3-. labels: #Minerals'
b'The efficiency of biooxidation for treatment of a double-refractory gold-bearing sulfide ore concentrate from the Bakyrchik deposit (East Kazakhstan) was defined. The experiments were conducted in two different modes, i.e., with the standard liquid medium and the medium imitating the chemical composition of the Bakyrchik deposit groundwater and containing high concentrations of sodium, magnesium, and chloride. The concentrate contained 17.5% of organic carbon, 6% of pyrite and 13% arsenopyrite. Gold content was 57.5 g t@-1@. Direct gold recovery by cyanidation was very low (2.8%). While biooxidation was efficient in both cases (approximately 90% of sulfide sulfur was oxidized), the efficiency of cyanidation was low (39 and 32%, respectively). This fact suggests high efficiency of biooxidation is insufficient for efficient treatment of double-refractory gold-bearing sulfide ore concentrates. labels: #Minerals'
b'The rate and mechanism of olivine dissolution was studied using naturally weathered dunite FO98.21(Mg1.884Fe0.391SiO4) from an Indian source, that also contains serpentine mineral lizardite. A series of batch dissolution experiments were carried out to check the influence of temperature (30-75\xe2\x88\x98C), initial dunite concentration (0.5 and 20 g/L), and salinity (0-35 g/L NaCl) under fixed head space CO2pressure (P[Formula: see text] = 1 barg) on dunite dissolution. Dissolved Mg, Si, and Fe concentrations were determined by inductive coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy. End-product solids were characterized by scanning electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction. Initially, rates of dissolution of Si and Mg were observed to be in stoichiometric proportion. After 8 h, the dissolution rate was observed to decline. At the end of the experiment (504 h), an amorphous silica-rich layer was observed over the dunite surface. This results in decay of the dissolution rate. The operating conditions (i.e., salinity, temperature, and mineral loading) affect the dissolution kinetics in a very complex manner because of which the observed experimental trends do not exhibit a direct trend. labels: #Minerals'
b"BACKGROUND: While some studies suggest that nutritional supplementation may reduce aggressive behavior in children, they have not examined whether its efficacy may be enhanced in conjunction with other treatment approaches. This study tests the hypothesis that a nutritional supplementation of omega-3, multivitamins, and minerals over 3\xc2\xa0months, combined with cognitive behavior therapy, will reduce childhood aggression.METHODS: In this randomized, single-blind, stratified, factorial trial, a high-risk community sample of 290 children aged 11-12\xc2\xa0years were randomized into Nutrition only, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) only, Nutrition\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa0CBT, and Control groups. The primary outcome measures of child- and parent-reported aggressive and antisocial behavior were collected at 0\xc2\xa0months (baseline), 3\xc2\xa0months (end of treatment), 6\xc2\xa0months (3\xc2\xa0months posttreatment), and 12\xc2\xa0months (9\xc2\xa0months posttreatment). The trial ('Healthy Brains&Behavior: Understanding and Treating Youth Aggression (HBB)' was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov at https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00842439 RESULTS: For child self-reports, children in the Nutrition only group showed reduced externalizing behavior compared to Controls at 3\xc2\xa0months. At 6\xc2\xa0months, the Nutrition\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa0CBT group scored lower on externalizing behavior compared to both CBT only and Control groups. Findings were more in evidence for an Aggressive-Reactive form of antisocial behavior than for a Callous-Proactive form. Effect sizes were in the small-to-medium range (d\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0-.33 to -.37). Group differences were not sustained 9\xc2\xa0months posttreatment, and no other effects were significant.CONCLUSIONS: Findings provide some limited support for the efficacy of omega-3, vitamin, and mineral supplementation in reducing aggressive behavior in children, and represent the first evaluation of nutritional supplements in conjunction with CBT. labels: #Minerals"
b'The fauna communities of ephemeral pools in southern Chile are characterized by heterogeneity of crustacean taxa; nevertheless, no detailed studies exist of their community structure. The aim of the present study was to analyze the crustacean community structure in two groups of ephemeral pools (Puaucho and Nigue pools) in the coastal zone of the Araucan\xc3\xada region. A correlation matrix was made by species abundance against temperature, conductivity, pH and total dissolved solids. In a second step, a null model for species co-occurrence was applied to the total data and to each group. The results for total data revealed a significant direct relation between the abundance of H. costera, C. dubia and Mesocyclops. For the Puaucho pools, the same results were found together with direct associations with total dissolved solids, conductivity and pH. Finally, different results were found for the Nigue pools, with no clear significant associations, either direct or indirect, between the abundance of different crustacean taxa and abiotic parameters. These results were supported by the co-occurrence null model analysis, which revealed the presence of regulator factors for the total data, and for each of the two groups. Ecological topics are discussed with emphasis on meta-community dynamics. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study investigates differences and associations between urinary mineral concentrations and calcaneal bone measures assessed by quantitative ultrasonography (QUS) in 4322 children (3.1-11.9 years, 50.6% boys) from seven European countries. Urinary mineral concentrations and calcaneal QUS parameters differed significantly across countries. Clustering revealed a lower stiffness index (SI) in children with low and medium urinary mineral concentrations, and a higher SI in children with high urinary mineral concentrations. Urinary sodium (uNa) was positively correlated with urinary calcium (uCa), and was positively associated with broadband ultrasound attenuation and SI after adjustment for age, sex and fat-free mass. Urinary potassium (uK) was negatively correlated with uCa but positively associated with speed of sound after adjustment. No association was found between uCa and QUS parameters after adjustment, but when additionally adjusting for uNa, uCa was negatively associated with SI. Our findings suggest that urinary mineral concentrations are associated with calcaneal QUS parameters and may therefore implicate bone properties. These findings should be confirmed in longitudinal studies that include the food intake and repeated measurement of urinary mineral concentrations to better estimate usual intake and minimize bias. labels: #Minerals'
b'Iron deficiency chlorosis (IDC) is a serious environmental problem affecting the growth of several crops in the world. The application of synthetic Fe(III) chelates is still one of the most common measures to correct IDC and the search for more effective Fe chelates remains an important issue. Herein, we propose a tris(3-hydroxy-4-pyridinonate) iron(III) complex, Fe(mpp)3, as an IDC corrector. Different morphological, biochemical and molecular parameters were assessed as a first step towards understanding its mode of action, compared with that of the commercial fertilizer FeEDDHA. Plants treated with the pyridinone iron(III) complexes were significantly greener and had increased biomass. The total Fe content was measured using ICP-OES and plants treated with pyridinone complexes accumulated about 50% more Fe than those treated with the commercial chelate. In particular, plants supplied with compound Fe(mpp)3 were able to translocate iron from the roots to the shoots and did not elicit the expression of the Fe-stress related genes FRO2 and IRT1. These results suggest that 3,4-HPO iron(III) chelates could be a potential new class of plant fertilizing agents. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Mineral iron(III) recognition by bacteria is considered a matter of debate. The peculiar surface chemistry of novel naked magnetic nanoparticles, called SAMNs (surface active maghemite nanoparticles) characterized by solvent exposed Fe(3+) sites on their surface, was exploited for studying mineral iron sensing in Pseudomonas fluorescens.METHODS: SAMNs were applied for mimicking Fe(3+) ions in solution, acting as magnetically drivable probes to evaluate putative Fe(3+) recognition sites on the microorganism surface. Culture broths and nano-bio-conjugates were characterized by UV-Vis spectroscopy and mass spectrometry.RESULTS: The whole heritage of a membrane porin (OprF) of P. fluorescens Ps_22 cells was recognized and firmly bound by SAMNs. The binding of nanoparticles to OprF porin was correlated to a drastic inhibition of a siderophore (pyoverdine) biosynthesis and to the stimulation of the production and rate of formation of a secondary siderophore. The analysis of metabolic pathways, based on P. fluorescens Ps_22 genomic information, evidenced that this putative secondary siderophore does not belong to a selection of the most common siderophores.CONCLUSIONS: In the scenario of an adhesion mechanism, it is plausible to consider OprF as the biological component deputed to the mineral iron sensing in P. fluorescens Ps_22, as well as one key of siderophore regulation.GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: The present work sheds light on mineral iron sensing in microorganisms. Peculiar colloidal naked iron oxide nanoparticles offer a useful approach for probing the adhesion of bacterial surface on mineral iron for the identification of the specific recognition site for this iron uptake regulation in microorganisms. labels: #Minerals'
b'Eight strains of acidophilic bacteria, isolated from mine-impacted and geothermal sites from different parts of the world, were shown to form a distinct clade (proposed genus "Acidibacillus") within the phylum Firmicutes, well separated from the acidophilic genera Sulfobacillus and Alicyclobacillus. Two of the strains (both isolated from sites in Yellowstone National Park, USA) were moderate thermophiles that oxidised both ferrous iron and elemental sulphur, while the other six were mesophiles that also oxidised ferrous iron, but not sulphur. All eight isolates reduced ferric iron to varying degrees. The two groups shared<95% similarity of their 16S rRNA genes and were therefore considered to be distinct species: "Acidibacillus sulfuroxidans" (moderately thermophilic isolates) and "Acidibacillus ferrooxidans" (mesophilic isolates). Both species were obligate heterotrophs; none of the eight strains grew in the absence of organic carbon. "Acidibacillus" spp. were generally highly tolerant of elevated concentrations of cationic transition metals, though "A. sulfuroxidans" strains were more sensitive to some (e.g. nickel and zinc) than those of "A. ferrooxidans". Initial annotation of the genomes of two strains of "A. ferrooxidans" revealed the presence of genes (cbbL) involved in the RuBisCO pathway for CO2 assimilation and iron oxidation (rus), though with relatively low sequence identities. labels: #Minerals'
b'Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), fumonisin B1 (FB1), ochratoxin A (OTA) and T-2 toxin (T2) are mycotoxins that commonly contaminate the food chain and cause various toxicological effects. Their global occurrence is regarded as an important risk factor for human and animal health. In this study, the results demonstrate that, in human Caco-2 cells, AFB1, FB1, OTA and T2 origin cytotoxic effects, determining cell viability through MTT assay and LDH leakage, and decrease trans-epithelial electrical resistance (TEER). The decrease in barrier properties is concomitant with a reduction in the expression levels of the tight junction constituents claudin-3, claudin-4 and occludin. The protective effect of mineral clays (diosmectite, montmorillonite and illite) on alterations in cell viability and epithelial barrier function induced by the mycotoxins was also evaluated. Illite was the best clay to prevent the mycotoxin effects. Illite plus mycotoxin co-treatment completely abolished AFB1 and FB1-induced cytotoxicity. Also, the decreases in the gene expression of claudins and the reduction of TEER induced by mycotoxins were reversed by the illite plus mycotoxin co-treatment. In conclusion, these results demonstrated that mycotoxins AFB1, FB1, T2 and OTA disrupt the intestinal barrier permeability by a mechanism involving reduction of claudin isoform expressions, and illite counteracts this disruption. labels: #Minerals'
b'Magnetotactic bacteria perform biomineralization of intracellular magnetite (Fe3O4) nanoparticles. Although they may be among the earliest microorganisms capable of biomineralization on Earth, identifying their activity in ancient sedimentary rocks remains challenging because of the lack of a reliable biosignature. We determined Fe isotope fractionations by the magnetotactic bacterium Magnetospirillum magneticum AMB-1. The AMB-1 strain produced magnetite strongly depleted in heavy Fe isotopes, by 1.5 to 2.5 per mil relative to the initial growth medium. Moreover, we observed mass-independent isotope fractionations in (57)Fe during magnetite biomineralization but not in even Fe isotopes ((54)Fe, (56)Fe, and (58)Fe), highlighting a magnetic isotope effect. This Fe isotope anomaly provides a potential biosignature for the identification of magnetite produced by magnetotactic bacteria in the geological record. labels: #Minerals'
b'The formation and stabilization of soil organic matter (SOM) are major concerns in the context of global change for carbon sequestration and soil health. It is presently believed that lignin is not selectively preserved in soil and that chemically labile compounds bonding to minerals comprise a large fraction of the SOM. Labile plant inputs have been suggested to be the main precursor of the mineral-bonded SOM. Litter decomposition and SOM formation are expected to have temperature sensitivity varying with the lability of plant inputs. We tested this framework using dual (13) C and (15) N differentially labeled plant material to distinguish the metabolic and structural components within a single plant material. Big Bluestem (Andropogon gerardii) seedlings were grown in an enriched (13) C and (15) N environment and then prior to harvest, removed from the enriched environment and allowed to incorporate natural abundance (13) C-CO2 and (15) N fertilizer into the metabolic plant components. This enabled us to achieve a greater than one atom % difference in (13) C between the metabolic and structural components within the plant litter. This differentially labeled litter was incubated in soil at 15 and 35\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, for 386\xc2\xa0days with CO2 measured throughout the incubation. After 14, 28, 147, and 386\xc2\xa0days of incubation, the soil was subsequently fractionated. There was no difference in temperature sensitivity of the metabolic and structural components with regard to how much was respired or in the amount of litter biomass stabilized. Only the metabolic litter component was found in the sand, silt, or clay fraction while the structural component was exclusively found in the light fraction. These results support the stabilization framework that labile plant components are the main precursor of mineral-associated organic matter. labels: #Minerals'
b'As an indispensable part of minority traditional medicine, mineral medicine has used with less dosage and reliable efficacy for the last thousand years. Based on the unearthed relics and medical literatures of past dynasties, the history of Han nationality ap- years, which had been recorded in main literature. But there is less comprehensive report of its usage in the other 55-minority nationality. This article was based on the analysis of ethnic minority literature of thousands of years, and conducted a comprehensive collation and analysis of mineral medicine. It was mostly determined that there was 20 minority groups using mineral medicine, with a total of 163 species (limited our references), and the most used is the Tibetan, accounting for 141. The most serious problems of mineral medicine are that species should be further investigated and researched, and then become the legal commercial medicine, and the classification principles of mineral medicine should be established. Through the traditional processing and experimental studies, the problems of attenuation and detoxification should be solved. labels: #Minerals'
b'In this study, batch experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of nanoparticles (NPs) (MgO, ZnO, TiO2) and clay minerals (bentonite, zeolite) on the release of chromium (Cr) from leather factory waste (LFW) and LFW treated soil using organic acids. Chromium release from all treatments was studied in the presence of citric acid, oxalic acid and CaCl2 solutions. The results showed that, in all treatments, organic acids released more Cr than inorganic salt (CaCl2). The release of Cr by citric acid was higher than that by oxalic acid. In LFW treated soil and LFW, the release of Cr from the all treatments with NPs was less than that from the clay mineral treatments. On the other hand, in the presence of organic acids, Cr release by NPs and clay minerals decreased. Two kinetic models including pseudo-first- and pseudo-second-order model were tested to describe the time dependent Cr release data. Among the kinetic models used, the pseudo-second-order model generally gave the best fits to experimental data. Before and after release experiments, Cr in LFW, treated LFW, control soil and LFW treated soils were fractionated. In all treatments, the greatest amounts of Cr were found in the residual fraction (RES). The organic acids were effective in reducing the exchangeable (EXC), bound to organic matter (OM) and bound to carbonate (CAR) fractions of Cr in all treatments, whereas, after release of Cr from treated soils, Cr remained mainly in the RES fraction. The application of NPs and clay minerals in soil led to a significant transformation of Cr from mobile fractions to the RES fraction. Therefore, organic ligands played a dominant role in mobility and bioavailability of Cr and the removal of Cr by adsorbents. labels: #Minerals'
b'Understanding how minerals affect bacterial communities and their in situ activities in relation to environmental conditions are central issues in soil microbial ecology, as minerals represent essential reservoirs of inorganic nutrients for the biosphere. To determine the impact of mineral type and solution chemistry on soil bacterial communities, we compared the diversity, composition, and functional abilities of a soil bacterial community incubated in presence/absence of different mineral types (apatite, biotite, obsidian). Microcosms were prepared containing different liquid culture media devoid of particular essential nutrients, the nutrients provided only in the introduced minerals and therefore only available to the microbial community through mineral dissolution by biotic and/or abiotic processes. By combining functional screening of bacterial isolates and community analysis by bromodeoxyuridine DNA immunocapture and 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing, we demonstrated that bacterial communities were mainly impacted by the solution chemistry at the taxonomic level and by the mineral type at the functional level. Metabolically active bacterial communities varied with solution chemistry and mineral type. Burkholderia were significantly enriched in the obsidian treatment compared to the biotite treatment and were the most effective isolates at solubilizing phosphorous or mobilizing iron, in all the treatments. A detailed analysis revealed that the 16S rRNA gene sequences of the OTUs or isolated strains assigned as Burkholderia in our study showed high homology with effective mineral-weathering bacteria previously recovered from the same experimental site. labels: #Minerals'
b'Sewage sludge (50% mineral), manure (29%) and wood (<1%) were pyrolyzed at 200, 350 and 500\xc2\xb0C with the aim to study the characteristics and sorption potential of materials undergoing pyrolysis across a wide range of mineral contents. A commercial plant-derived biochar (41% mineral) was also considered. The materials were extensively characterized and tested for their sorption towards the model sorbates benzene, naphthalene and pyrene. Plant-derived materials, regardless of their mineral content, developed micropores causing size exclusion of pyrene. Changes in properties and sorption behavior upon pyrolysis were generally consistent for the manure and wood series. A single regression equation developed on our data (including the sorbate hydrophobicity and sorbent polarity) provided excellent prediction of previously reported changes in sorption upon pyrolysis across a wide range of mineral content (up to 500\xc2\xb0C). The sewage sludge series, however, followed a particular behavior, possibly due to very high mineral content (up to 67%). labels: #Minerals'
b'The effect of four cultivation parameters (postmaturity harvest date, storage period at 0 \xc2\xb0C, and input of nitrogen and potassium fertilizers) on the mineral composition of kiwi fruit (Actinidia deliciosa var. Hayward) from Corsica were evaluated. The kiwi fruit were harvested on three dates at two-week intervals and some fruit were stored for three and four months. The kiwi fruit orchard was fertilized with controlled levels of nitrogen (five levels) and potassium (three levels) during one growing season. The concentrations of 67 elements in kiwi fruit were measured using various analytical methods, such as flow injection spectrophotometry, flame atomic absorption spectrometry, flame atomic emission spectrometry, electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry, inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, and filtration. The main elements in kiwi fruit are K, N, Cl, P, and Si and, to a lesser amount, Ca, Mg, Na, and Fe. This study demonstrates a high degree of difference in the amount of 23 mineral elements depending on the harvest date, the time of storage, and the input of fertilizers. labels: #Minerals'
b'Stockpiled tall fescue can provide adequate winter forage for beef cattle, although unsupplemented replacement heifers may display marginal performance before breeding. The objective of this study was to determine if protein supplementation and/or additional forage improves growth and reproductive performance of replacement heifers grazing stockpiled fescue. Cattle averaging 272 \xc2\xb1 1.59 kg were stratified by BW and then randomly assigned to 1 of 4 plots within a pasture replication. Treatment combinations were assigned in a 2 \xc3\x97 2 factorial arrangement and included 1) a conservative forage allocation ("normal," targeting 85% forage use) and mineral supplement (normal forage allocation with mineral supplement [FM]), 2) normal forage allocation with protein tub (FT), 3) more liberal forage allocation ("extra," targeting 70% forage use) and mineral supplement (extra forage allocation with mineral supplement [EM]), and 4) "extra forage allocation with protein tub (ET). Treatments were administered for 8 wk from early November to early January. Heifers were fed fescue hay for 1 wk before breeding in late January. Heifers were synchronized with the 7-d CO-Synch + controlled internal drug release device protocol and inseminated in late January. Heifers were checked for pregnancy by ultrasonography at 35 and 90 d after AI. Main and interaction effects between the 2 treatments were determined. Total supplement intake was greater for protein tub than mineral supplement (0.36 vs. 0.11 kg\xc2\xb7heifer\xc2\xb7d, respectively;<0.0001), and the additional dietary protein in the tub groups resulted in greater serum urea N concentrations (<0.0001; 8.15 vs. 10.4 mg/dL for mineral and protein tub, respectively). Forage utilization efficiency was greater for normal than extra forage allocation (74.7 vs. 65.8%, respectively;<0.0001). Main effects of both treatments on ADG were significant (<0.0001; 0.28, 0.43, 0.43, and 0.51 kg\xc2\xb7heifer\xc2\xb7d for FM, FT, EM, and ET, respectively). There was an interaction effect of the 2 treatments on change in BCS (<0.05; 0.12, 0.10, 0.18, and 0.31 for FM, FT, EM, and ET, respectively). Reproductive tract scores, pelvic area, and AI pregnancy rates were not different between treatments (>0.05). Overall, feeding a protein supplement or providing extra forage increased gain and interacted to increase BCS but did not have an effect on reproductive performance. Supplementing with protein and providing extra forage are strategies that can increase gain in heifers, which could aid heifers in reaching puberty before estrous synchronization. labels: #Minerals'
b'UNLABELLED: Bacteria play important roles in mineral weathering, soil formation, and element cycling. However, little is known about the interaction between silicate minerals and rhizobia. In this study, Rhizobium yantingense H66 (a novel mineral-weathering rhizobium) and Rhizobium etli CFN42 were compared with respect to potash feldspar weathering, mineral surface adsorption, and metabolic activity during the mineral weathering process. Strain H66 showed significantly higher Si, Al, and K mobilization from the mineral and higher ratios of cell numbers on the mineral surface to total cell numbers than strain CFN42. Although the two strains produced gluconic acid, strain H66 also produced acetic, malic, and succinic acids during mineral weathering in low- and high-glucose media. Notably, higher Si, Al, and K releases, higher ratios of cell numbers on the mineral surface to total cell numbers, and a higher production of organic acids by strain H66 were observed in the low-glucose medium than in the high-glucose medium. Scanning electron microscope analyses of the mineral surfaces and redundancy analysis showed stronger positive correlations between the mineral surface cell adsorption and mineral weathering, indicated by the dissolved Al and K concentrations. The results showed that the two rhizobia behaved differently with respect to mineral weathering. The results suggested that Rhizobium yantingense H66 promoted potash feldspar weathering through increased adsorption of cells to the mineral surface and through differences in glucose metabolism at low and high nutrient concentrations, especially at low nutrient concentrations.IMPORTANCE: This study reported the potash feldspar weathering, the cell adsorption capacity of the mineral surfaces, and the metabolic differences between the novel mineral-weathering Rhizobium yantingense H66 and Rhizobium etli CFN42 under different nutritional conditions. The results showed that Rhizobium yantingense H66 had a greater ability to weather the mineral in low- and high-glucose media, especially in the low-glucose medium. Furthermore, Rhizobium yantingense H66 promoted mineral weathering through the increased adsorption of cells to the mineral surface and through increased organic acid production. Our results allow us to better comprehend the roles of different rhizobia in silicate mineral weathering, element cycling, and soil formation in various soil environments, providing more insight into the geomicrobial contributions of rhizobia to these processes. labels: #Minerals'
b'A novel endospore-forming bacterium designated strain GSsed3T was isolated from deposits clogging aboveground filters from the geothermal power platform of Gro\xc3\x9f Sch\xc3\xb6nebeck in northern Germany. The novel isolate was Gram-staining-positive, facultatively anaerobic, catalase-positive and oxidase-positive. Optimum growth occurred at 60\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C, 0.5\xe2\x80\x89% (w/v) NaCl and pH 7-8. Analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity indicated that strain GSsed3T belonged to the genus Anoxybacillus, and showed 99.8\xe2\x80\x89% sequence similarity to Anoxybacillus rupiensis R270T, 98.2\xe2\x80\x89% similarity to Anoxybacillus tepidamans GS5-97T, 97.9\xe2\x80\x89% similarity to Anoxybacillus voinovskiensis TH13T, 97.7\xe2\x80\x89% similarity to Anoxybacillus caldiproteolyticus DSM 15730T and 97.6\xe2\x80\x89% similarity to Anoxybacillus amylolyticus MR3CT. DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH) indicated only 16\xe2\x80\x89% relatedness to Anoxybacillus rupiensis DSM 17127T. Furthermore, DDH estimation based on genomes analysis indicated only 19.9\xe2\x80\x89% overall nucleotide similarity to Anoxybacillus amylolyticus DSM 15939T. The major respiratory menaquinone was MK-8. The polar lipid profile consisted of phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, diphosphatidylglycerol, one unknown phosphoglycolipid and one unknown phospholipid. The predominant cellular fatty acids were iso-C15\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890, iso-C17\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890, C16\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890, iso-C16\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890 and anteiso-C17\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890. The peptidoglycan type was A1\xce\xb3 meso-Dpm-direct. The genomic DNA G+C content of the strain was 46.9 mol%. The phenotypic, genotypic and chemotaxonomic characterization indicated that strain GSsed3T differs from related species of the genus. Therefore, strain GSsed3T is considered to be a representative of a novel species of the genus Anoxybacillus, for which the name Anoxybacillus geothermalis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Anoxybacillus geothermalis is GSsed3T (=CCOS808T =ATCC BAA2555T). labels: #Minerals'
b'Nature has evolved several unique biomineralization strategies to direct the synthesis and growth of inorganic materials. These natural systems are complex, involving the interaction of multiple biomolecules to catalyze biomineralization and template growth. Herein we describe the first report to our knowledge of a single enzyme capable of both catalyzing mineralization in otherwise unreactive solution and of templating nanocrystal growth. A recombinant putative cystathionine \xce\xb3-lyase (smCSE) mineralizes CdS from an aqueous cadmium acetate solution via reactive H2S generation from l-cysteine and controls nanocrystal growth within the quantum confined size range. The role of enzymatic nanocrystal templating is demonstrated by substituting reactive Na2S as the sulfur source. Whereas bulk CdS is formed in the absence of the enzyme or other capping agents, nanocrystal formation is observed when smCSE is present to control the growth. This dual-function, single-enzyme, aerobic, and aqueous route to functional material synthesis demonstrates the powerful potential of engineered functional material biomineralization. labels: #Minerals'
b'Magnetic and geochemical parameters of soils are determined with respect to geology, pedogenesis and anthropopression. Depending on local conditions these factors affect magnetic and geochemical signals simultaneously or in various configurations. We examined four type of soils (Entic Podzol, Eutric Cambisol, Humic Cambisol and Dystric Cambisol) developed on various bedrock (the Tumlin Sandstone, basaltoid, amphibolite and serpentinite, respectively). Our primary aim was to characterize the origin and diversification of the magnetic and geochemical signal in soils in order to distinguish the most reliable methods for correct interpretation of measured parameters. Presented data include selected parameters, both magnetic (mass magnetic susceptibility - \xcf\x87, frequency-dependent magnetic susceptibility - \xcf\x87fd and thermomagnetic susceptibility measurement - TSM), and geochemical (selected heavy metal contents: Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, Zn). Additionally, the enrichment factor (EF) and index of geoaccumulation (Igeo) were calculated. Our results suggest the following: (1) the \xcf\x87/Fe ratio may be a reliable indicator for determining changes of magnetic signal origin in soil profiles; (2) magnetic and geochemical signals are simultaneously higher (the increment of \xcf\x87 and lead and zinc was noted) in topsoil horizons because of the deposition of technogenic magnetic particles (TMPs); (3) EF and Igeo evaluated for lead and zinc unambiguously showed anthropogenic influence in terms of increasing heavy metal contents in topsoil regardless of bedrock or soil type; (4) magnetic susceptibility measurements supported by TSM curves for soil samples of different genetic horizons are a helpful tool for interpreting the origin and nature of the mineral phases responsible for the changes of magnetic susceptibility values. labels: #Minerals'
b"OBJECTIVES: To investigate the effect of Galla chinensis chemical compounds on enamel caries remineralization in rats.METHODS: A total of 40 rats were inoculated with Streptococcus sobrinus 6715 and fed a cariogenic diet (Keyes 2000). The rats were randomly divided into 4 groups and treated topically twice a day with each of the following extracts (or control) for 5 weeks: distilled and deionized water (DDW, negative control); 1,000 ppm NaF (positive control); 4,000 ppm G. chinensis crude aqueous extract (GCE), or 4,000 ppm gallic acid (GA). After the experimental period, Keyes' caries diagnosis and scoring technique was applied as a preliminary evaluation on the molar teeth. For more accurate remineralization data, the residual enamel volume of the first molar and the mineral density (MD) of the enamel were further analyzed by micro-CT.RESULTS: The severity of molar enamel caries decreased in the following order of treatment groups: DDW>GA>GCE>NaF (p<0.05). In addition, the residual first molar enamel volume and MD values increased in the order of DDW, GA, GCE and NaF treatment groups (p<0.05). In most molars, remineralization layers were observed on the surface of lesions.CONCLUSION: G. chinensis compounds remineralize enamel caries lesions in a rat model. labels: #Minerals"
b'Chromite ore processing residue (COPR) is a hazardous waste. Nevertheless, deposition of COPR in uncontrolled surface landfills is still common practice in some countries. Whereas old (between at least 40 and 180 years) COPR from the temperate zone has been intensively investigated, information on COPR in other regions is restricted. Relatively young (<25 years) COPR samples obtained from two abandoned landfill sites in India were investigated by a modified total microwave digestion method, X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in order to determine their chemical and mineralogical nature. By the use of microwave digestion with acid mixtures of HNO3, H3PO4, and HBF4 (5:3:2\xc2\xa0vol), COPR was completely dissolved and element contents similar to those obtained by X-ray fluorescence were found. Total Cr contents of the two COPR accounted for 81 and 74\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0kg(-1), of which 20 and 13% were present in the carcinogenic hexavalent form (CrVI). Apart from the common major mineral phases present in COPR reported earlier, a further Cr host mineral, grimaldiite [CrO(OH)], could be identified by XRPD and SEM. Additionally, well soluble Na2CrO4 was present. Improving the effectiveness of chromite ore processing and preventing the migration of Cr(VI) into water bodies are the main challenges when dealing with these COPR. labels: #Minerals'
b'BACKGROUND: Endoscopic management of nonvariceal upper GI bleed (NVUGIB) can be challenging. Hemospray is a novel endoscopic hemostatic agent for NVUGIB. Its efficacy in attaining hemostasis in NVUGIB is promising, particularly with respect to technically difficult lesions. However, most of the currently available data are focused on its application as monotherapy. The aim of this study was to evaluate its efficacy as a second agent to adrenaline, or as an addition to the combination of adrenaline with either clips or a thermal device in NVUGIB.METHODS: Consecutive patients with Forrest 1a and 1b ulcer treated with hemostatic spray as an adjunct to conventional endoscopic hemostatic measures between July 2013 and June 2015 were included in this retrospective analysis. The endpoints were initial hemostasis, 7-day rebleeding, 30-day rebleeding, all-cause, and GI-related 30-day mortality.RESULTS: A total of 20 patients (median age, 75 years, 50% men, 60% Forrest 1a ulcer) were treated with hemostatic spray as a second agent to adrenaline, or as an adjunct to the combination of adrenaline with either clips or\xc2\xa0a thermal device. Hemostatic spray was used as a second agent to adrenaline in 40% and as a third agent to combined dual therapy in 60%. Initial hemostasis was attained in 95% with an overall rebleeding rate at 7 days of 16%. There was no difference between the 7-day and 30-day rebleeding rates. The combination of hemostatic spray and adrenaline resulted in 100% initial hemostasis and 25% 7-day rebleeding. Similarly, initial hemostasis was achieved in 92% with a 9% rebleeding rate when hemostatic spray was used as the third agent to 2 of the conventional measures. All-cause mortality was 15% with 1 GI-related death (3%).CONCLUSIONS: In our single-center retrospective analysis, hemostatic spray appears promising as an adjunct to conventional methods for NVUGIB, although prospective controlled trials are needed to confirm this. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objective of the study was to evaluate utilization of dietary minerals and trace elements in pregnant heifers with distinct residual feed intakes (RFI). Feed intake, body weight (BW), and body composition traits were recorded in 36 crossbred heifers over a period of 37 wk, starting shortly after weaning at 8.3 (0.10; standard deviation) mo of age with an average BW of 276 (7.8) kg. Both BW and body composition were monitored regularly throughout the study, whereas individual feed intake was assessed during the last 84 d of the trial. Data recorded were used to calculate RFI for each heifer. Heifers were ranked based on RFI and assigned to high (n=14) or low (n=10) RFI groups. After the RFI study, 24 selected heifers [age 18.2 (0.14) mo; 87.5 (4.74) d in gestation; 497 (8.5) kg of BW] were used in an indirect digestibility trial (lignin as internal marker). Heifers were fed a ration containing corn silage, haylage, and a mineral premix in which Ca, P, K, Na, Mg, S, Cu, Fe, Mn, Mo, Se, Zn, and Co were provided in the diet according to National Research Council requirements of pregnant replacement heifers. The digestibility trial lasted 1 wk, during which samples of feces were gathered twice daily, and blood and liver biopsy samples were collected on the last day. We noted no significant differences between low- and high-RFI heifers in dry matter digestibility. Apparent absorption of Cu, Zn, and Mn was increased in heifers with low RFI, and apparent absorption of Co tended to be greater for these animals. Concentrations of macrominerals and trace elements in serum of pregnant heifers were similar for both groups except for Se, which was increased in the serum of low-RFI heifers. Liver concentrations of Cu, Fe, Mn, Mo, Se, and Zn did not differ between low- and high-RFI heifers. In conclusion, whereas improved absorption of some trace elements (Cu, Zn, Mn, and Co) and increased Se serum concentration appear to be associated with superior feed efficiency in pregnant heifers, further studies are needed to investigate the causality of such relationships. labels: #Minerals'
b'Schiff base ligand, (L), derived from condensation reaction of 1,7-bis-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-1,6-heptadiene-3,5-dione, (curcumin), with pyridine-3-carboxamide, (nicotinamide), and its complexes of Co(II), Ni(II) and Cu(II) ions, containing 1,10-phenanthroline as auxiliary ligand were synthesized and characterized by various physico-chemical techniques. From the micro analytical data, the stoichiometry of the complexes 1:1 (metal: ligand) was ascertained. The Co(II) and Cu(II) forms octahedral complexes, while the geometric structure around Ni(II) atom can be described as square planar. The catalytic potential of the metal complexes have been evaluated by recording the rate of decomposition of hydrogen peroxide. The results reveal that the percent decomposition of H2O2increases with time and the highest value (50.50%) was recorded for Co(II) complex. The ligand and its complexes were also screened for their in vitro antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The relative order of antibacterial activity against S. Pyogenes, S. aureus and E. coli is Cu(II)>Ni(II)>Co(II)>(L); while with P. aeruginosa, K. pneumoniae the order of activity is Cu(II)>Co(II)>Ni(II)>(L). The anthelmintic screening was performed using Pheretima posthuma. The order of anthelmintic activity of ligand and its complexes is [(Phen)CuLCl2]>[(Phen)CoLCl2]>[(Phen)NiL]Cl2>(L). labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of calcium (15 mmol/day) and vitamin D (625 \xce\xbcg/month), as single supplement or in combination, vs. no supplement on growth, clinical signs of rickets and Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) and dental health.METHODS: Prospective controlled trial involving children aged 0-5 years living in four groups of villages in a KBD-endemic rural area of central Tibet who received either calcium and/or vitamin D or no supplement. The cohort was followed over 3 years. Primary outcome was the impact of the different supplementation regimes on KBD, rickets and growth; secondary outcomes were impact on urinary levels of calcium and phosphorus, biomarkers of bone and cartilage turnover, and dental health.RESULTS: No difference was observed between the four groups with regard to anthropometric data, rickets, KBD, urinary levels of CrossLaps(\xc2\xae) and CartiLaps(\xc2\xae) . Weight for height or age, mid-upper arm circumference and skinfold thickness decreased in the four groups. Height for age increased and the prevalence of KBD fell in the four groups. Dental health was better in the group receiving calcium and vitamin D. Urinary calcium levels increased after 3 years of follow-up in all groups; the group receiving vitamin D had a higher increase (P-value: 0.044). The same global increase was observed for urinary phosphorus levels; the group receiving calcium had a higher increase (P-value: 0.01).CONCLUSIONS: Calcium and vitamin D failed to improve growth and bone metabolism of children living in a KBD-endemic rural area. Calcium and vitamin D supplementation improved dental health. labels: #Minerals'
b'The oxidization of metal sulfide in tailings causes acid mine drainage. However, it remains unclear whether vegetation prevents the oxidization of metal sulfides. The oxidization characteristics and microbial indices of the tailings in the presence of various plant species were investigated to explore the effects of vegetation on the oxidization of sulfide minerals in tailings. The pH, reducing sulfur, free iron oxides (Fed), chemical oxygen consumption (COC) and biological oxygen consumption (BOC) were measured. Key iron- and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria (Acidithiobacillus spp., Leptospirillum spp. and Thiobacillus spp.) were quantified using real-time PCR. The results indicate that vegetation growing on tailings can effectively prevent the oxidization of sulfide minerals in tailings. A higher pH and reducing-sulfur content and lower Fed were observed in the 0-30\xc2\xa0cm depth interval in the presence of vegetation compared to bare tailings (BT). The COC gradually decreased with depth in all of the soil profiles; specifically, the COC rapidly decreased in the 10-20\xc2\xa0cm interval in the presence of vegetation but gradually decreased in the BT profiles. Imperata cylindrica (IC) and Chrysopogon zizanoides (CZ) profiles contained the highest BOC in the 10-20\xc2\xa0cm interval. The abundance of key iron- and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria in the vegetated tailings were significantly lower than in the BT; in particular, IC was associated with the lowest iron- and sulfur-oxidizing bacterial abundance. In conclusion, vegetation successfully prevented the oxidization of sulfide minerals in the tailings, and Imperata cylindrica is the most effective in reducing the number of iron- and sulfur-oxidizing bacteria and helped to prevent the oxidization of sulfide minerals in the long term. labels: #Minerals'
b'This study was undertaken to determine the effects of varied salinity regimes on the morphological traits (plant height, number of leaves, number of flowers, fresh and dry weight) and major mineral composition of 13 selected purslane accessions. Most of the morphological traits measured were reduced at varied salinity levels (0.0, 8, 16, 24 and 32\xc2\xa0dS\xc2\xa0m(-1)), but plant height was found to increase in Ac1 at 16\xc2\xa0dS\xc2\xa0m(-1) salinity, and Ac13 was the most affected accession. The highest reductions in the number of leaves and number of flowers were recorded in Ac13 at 32\xc2\xa0dS\xc2\xa0m(-1) salinity compared to the control. The highest fresh and dry weight reductions were noted in Ac8 and Ac6, respectively, at 32\xc2\xa0dS\xc2\xa0m(-1) salinity, whereas the highest increase in both fresh and dry weight was recorded in Ac9 at 24\xc2\xa0dS\xc2\xa0m(-1) salinity compared to the control. In contrast, at lower salinity levels, all of the measured mineral levels were found to increase and later decrease with increasing salinity, but the performance of different accessions was different depending on the salinity level. A dendrogram was also constructed by UPGMA based on the morphological traits and mineral compositions, in which the 13 accessions were grouped into 5 clusters, indicating greater diversity among them. A three-dimensional principal component analysis also confirmed the output of grouping from cluster analysis. labels: #Minerals'
b'Iron oxide (FeO) coated by natural organic matter (NOM) is ubiquitous. The associations of minerals with organic matter (OM) significantly changes their surface properties and reactivity, and thus affect the environmental fate of pollutants, including nutrients (e.g., phosphorus (P)). In this study, ferrihydrite/goethite-humic acid (FH/GE-HA) complexes were prepared and their adsorption characteristics on P at various pH and ionic strength were investigated. The results indicated that the FeO-OM complexes showed a decreased P adsorption capacity in comparison with bare FeO. The maximum adsorption capacity (Qmax) decreased in the order of FH (22.17 mg/g)>FH-HA (5.43 mg/g)>GE (4.67 mg/g)>GE-HA (3.27 mg/g). After coating with HA, the amorphous FH-HA complex still showed higher P adsorption than the crystalline GE-HA complex. The decreased P adsorption observed might be attributed to changes of the FeO surface charges caused by OM association. The dependence of P adsorption on the specific surface area of adsorbents suggests that the FeO component in the complexes is still the main contributor for the adsorption surfaces. The P adsorptions on FeO-HA complexes decreased with increasing initial pH or decreasing initial ionic strength. A strong dependence of P adsorption on ionic strength and pH may demonstrate that outer-sphere complexes between the OM component on the surface and P possibly coexist with inner-sphere surface complexes between the FeO component and P. Therefore, previous over-emphasis on the contributions of original minerals to P immobilization possibly over-estimates the P loading capacity of soils, especially in humic-rich areas. labels: #Minerals'
b'An experiment was conducted to study the effects of dietary supplementation of water-soluble ionised or chelated mineral mixture on growth performance, nutrient digestibility, blood characteristics, relative organ weight, meat quality and excreta microflora in broilers. A total of 408 Arbor Acres broilers (17 birds in 8 replicate pens) were randomly allocated into one of the following three treatments: (1) Control/basal diet (CON), (2) T1 (basal diet\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa00.5% ionised mineral mixture solution, pH 3.0) and (3) T2 (basal diet\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa00.5% chelated mineral mixture solution, pH 3.0). The body weight gain was greater and feed conversion ratio was lower in broilers supplemented with ionised or chelated mineral liquid complex compared to CON during the grower and overall phase of the experiment. No significant effect in the concentration of Ca and P in the blood was observed in birds supplemented with ionised or chelated mineral mixture solution. No adverse effects were observed in organ weight and meat quality with ionised or chelated mineral mixture supplementation. Regarding intestinal microbiota counts there was a reduction of Escherichia coli counts in the small intestine in ionised mineral supplemented birds. In the large intestine, E. coli as well as Salmonella populations were reduced in ionised mineral supplemented birds. In conclusion, ionised or chelated minerals have partial positive effects in improving growth performance and reducing pathogenic bacteria load in the gastro-intestinal tract. labels: #Minerals'
b'Binary oxide semiconductors TiO2-ZrO2 and Cu-decorated TiO2-ZrO2 (TiO2-ZrO2-Cu) uniform films were sputtered on polyester (PES). These films were irradiated under low intensity solar simulated light and led to bacterial inactivation in aerobic and anaerobic media as evaluated by CFU-plate counting. But bacterial mineralization was only induced by TiO2-ZrO2-Cu in aerobic media. The highly oxidative radicals generated on the films surface under light were identified by the use of appropriate scavengers. The hole generated on the TiO2-ZrO2 films is shown to be the main specie leading to bacterial inactivation. TiO2-ZrO2 and Cu-decorated TiO2-ZrO2 films release Zr and Ti<1ppb and Cu 4.6ppb/cm(2) as determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) This level is far below the citotoxicity permitted level allowed for mammalian cells suggesting that bacterial disinfection proceeds through an oligodynamic effect. By Fourier transform attenuated infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR) the systematic shift of the predominating \xce\xbds(CH2) vibrational-rotational peak making up most of the bacterial cell-wall content in C was monitored. Based on this evidence a mechanism suggested leading to CH bond stretching followed by cell lysis and cell death. Bacterial inactivation cycling was observed on TiO2-ZrO2-Cu showing the stability of these films leading to bacterial inactivation. labels: #Minerals'
b"2,4,6-Trichlorophenol (TCP) is a biologically recalcitrant compound, but its biodegradation via reductive dechlorination can be accelerated by adding an exogenous electron donor. In this work, acetate and formate were evaluated for their ability to accelerate TCP reductive dechlorination, as well to accelerate mono-oxygenation of TCP's reduction product, phenol. Acetate and formate accelerated TCP reductive dechlorination, and the impact was proportional to the number of electron equivalents released by oxidation of the donor: 8\xc2\xa0e(-) equivalents per mol for acetate, compared to 2\xc2\xa0e(-) eq per mol for formate. The acceleration phenomenon was similar for phenol mono-oxygenation, and this increased the rate of TCP mineralization. Compared to endogenous electron equivalents generated by phenol mineralization, the impact of exogenous electron donor was stronger on a per-equivalent basis. labels: #Minerals"
b'BACKGROUND: About 50% of Americans and 60% to 70% of US military personnel use dietary supplements, some of which have been associated with adverse events (AEs). Nutritional supplements like sport drinks and sport bars/gels are also commonly used by athletes and service members. Previous dietary supplement and nutritional supplement surveys were conducted on Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard personnel.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this cross-sectional study was to investigate dietary and nutritional supplement use in Navy and Marine Corps personnel, including the prevalence, types, factors associated with use, and AEs.DESIGN: A random sample of 10,000 Navy and Marine Corps personnel were contacted. Service members were asked to complete a detailed questionnaire describing their personal characteristics, supplement use, and AEs experienced.RESULTS: In total, 1,708 service members completed the questionnaire during August through December 2014, with 1,683 used for analysis. Overall, 73% reported using dietary supplements one or more times per week. The most commonly used dietary supplements (used one or more times per week) were multivitamins/multiminerals (48%), protein/amino acids (34%), combination products (33%), and individual vitamins and minerals (29%). About 31% of service members reported using five or more dietary supplements. Sport drinks and sport bars/gels were used by 45% and 23% of service members, respectively. Monthly expenditures on dietary supplements averaged $39; 31% of service members spent \xe2\x89\xa5$50/mo. Multivariate logistic regression modeling indicated that female sex (women/men; odds ratio [OR]=1.76, 95% CI 1.32 to 2.36), higher educational level (college degree/no college degree; OR=2.23, 95% CI 1.62 to 3.30), higher body mass index (calculated as kg/m(2)) (\xe2\x89\xa530/<25; OR=1.67, 95% CI 1.06 to 2.63), and a greater amount of resistance training (\xe2\x89\xa5271/0 to 45 min/week; OR=2.85, 95% CI 1.94 to 4.17) were associated with dietary supplement use. Twenty-two percent of dietary supplement users and 6% of nutritional supplement users reported one or more AEs. For combination products alone, 29% of users reported one or more AEs.CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of dietary supplement use in Navy and Marine Corps personnel was considerably higher than reported in civilian investigations for almost all types of dietary supplements, although similar to most other military services. Factors associated with dietary supplement use were similar to those reported in previous military and civilian investigations. Prevalence of self-reported AEs was very high, especially for combination products. labels: #Minerals'
b'The current mineral requirements for growing goat kids are based on sheep and cattle studies without differentiating between the stages of development or gender. The aims of this study were to determine the net requirements for growth of Ca, P, Mg, Na and K of Saanen goat kids during the initial stages of growth and to analyse the effect of gender on the net requirements for growth of these macrominerals. Eighteen female, 19 intact male and 10 castrated male Saanen goat kids were studied. The kids were selected applying a completely randomized design and slaughtered when their body weight (BW) reached approximately 5, 10 and 15\xc2\xa0kg to determine the mineral requirements for growth at these stages. The net mineral requirements for growth were similar among genders. The goat kids had slightly increased net requirements of Ca, P and Mg for growth with increasing BW from 5 to 15\xc2\xa0kg. The net requirements for growth of Ca, P, Mg, Na and K ranged from 9.61 to 9.67\xc2\xa0g/kg of BW gain, 7.14 to 7.56\xc2\xa0g/kg of BW gain, 0.34 to 0.37\xc2\xa0g/kg of BW gain, 1.26 to 1.13\xc2\xa0g/kg of BW gain, 1.88 to 1.82\xc2\xa0g/kg of BW gain as the animals grew from 5 to 15\xc2\xa0kg respectively. In conclusion, when formulating diets for Saanen goat kids in early growth stage mineral levels do not need to adjusted based on gender. labels: #Minerals'
b'Atmospheric nitrated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (NPAHs), which have been shown to have adverse health effects such as carcinogenicity, are formed in part through nitration reactions of their parent polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the atmosphere. However, little is known about heterogeneous nitration rates of PAHs by gaseous NO2 on natural mineral substrates, such as desert dust aerosols. Herein by employing kinetic experiments using a flow reactor and surface analysis by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy with pyridine adsorption, we demonstrate that the reaction is accelerated on acidic surfaces of mineral dust, particularly on those of clay minerals. In support of this finding, we show that levels of ambient particle-associated NPAHs in Beijing, China, significantly increased during heavy dust storms. These results suggest that mineral dust surface reactions are an unrecognized source of toxic organic chemicals in the atmosphere and that they enhance the toxicity of mineral dust aerosols in urban environments. labels: #Minerals'
b'In 1998, a toxic mine spill polluted a 55-km(2) area in a basin southward to Do\xc3\xb1ana National Park (Spain). Subsequent attempts to restore those trace element-contaminated soils have involved physical, chemical, or biological methodologies. In this study, the restoration approach included application of different types and doses of organic amendments: biosolid compost (BC) and leonardite (LEO). Twelve years after the last addition, molecular analyses of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal communities associated with target plants (Lamarckia aurea and Chrysanthemum coronarium) as well as analyses of trace element concentrations both in soil and in plants were performed. The results showed an improved soil quality reflected by an increase in soil pH and a decrease in trace element availability as a result of the amendments and dosages. Additionally, the phylogenetic diversity of the AM fungal community increased, reaching the maximum diversity at the highest dose of BC. Trace element concentration was considered the predominant soil factor determining the AM fungal community composition. Thereby, the studied AM fungal community reflects a community adapted to different levels of contamination as a result of the amendments. The study highlights the long-term effect of the amendments in stabilizing the soil system. labels: #Minerals'
b'Four Japanese Black steers (16 months of age) were assigned to a 4 \xc3\x97 4 Latin square design to investigate the effect of graded levels of sweet-potato condensed distillers solubles (SCDS) in their diets on intake and urinary excretion of minerals. The four diets consisted of 0%, 10%, 20% and 30% (dry matter (DM) basis) SCDS, with SCDS replacing commercial concentrate (CC). Intake of K, Cl, S, P and Mg increased linearly with increasing SCDS content. Urinary pH increased linearly with increasing dietary SCDS content. SCDS feeding increased urinary K concentrations (linear and quadratic effects). Urinary concentrations of Cl increased linearly with increasing SCDS content. In contrast, urinary concentrations of Mg decreased with increasing SCDS content. Feeding of SCDS did not apparently affect urinary NH3,P, Na or Ca concentrations. These results suggest that high SCDS feeding is not a risk for crystallization of minerals leading to the formation of magnesium-phosphate type calculi: although SCDS contains large amounts of P and Mg, high SCDS feeding decreased the Mg concentration and did not affect the P concentration in urine. Additionally, high SCDS feeding had no apparent effects on plasma concentrations of Na, K, Cl, Ca or inorganic P. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objectives were to evaluate the effect of harvest maturity of whole-crop oat (Study 1) and whole-crop barley (Study 2) on forage intake and sorting, ruminal fermentation, ruminal digestibility, and total tract digestibility when fed to beef heifers. In Study 1, 3 ruminally cannulated heifers (417 \xc2\xb1 5 kg) were used in a 3 \xc3\x97 3 Latin square design with 24-d periods. Whole-crop oat forage harvested at the late milk (LMILK), hard dough (HD), or ripe (RP) stages was fed for ad libitum intake and heifers were supplemented (1% of BW) with alfalfa pellets, barley grain, canola meal, and a mineral and vitamin pellet. Maturity at harvest for whole-crop oat did not affect ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.058) forage intake, DE intake, amount of forage refused, ruminal short-chain fatty acid concentration, or digestibility of DM, OM, NDF, and ADF. Ruminal starch digestibility decreased (<0.001) from 92.6% at the LMILK stage to 90.0% at the RP stage, with total tract starch digestibility decreasing ( = 0.043) from 95.8% at the LMILK stage to 94.8% at the RP stage. Ruminal CP digestibility was reduced at the HD stage compared with the LMILK and RP stages (<0.001). Mean ruminal pH was greatest for the LMILK stage (6.36; = 0.003) compared with the HD and RP stages (6.30 and 6.28, respectively). In Study 2, 6 ruminally cannulated heifers (273 \xc2\xb1 16 kg) were used in a replicated 3 \xc3\x97 3 Latin square design with 24-d periods. Dietary treatments included ad libitum access to whole-crop barley harvested at the LMILK, HD, or RP stage and a constant rate (0.8% BW) of supplement containing alfalfa pellets, barley grain, canola meal, and a mineral and vitamin pellet. Dry matter intake, ruminal content mass, and feeding behavior were not affected by harvest maturity ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.16). There was a decrease in total tract digestibility of DM, OM, and NDF observed at the HD stage compared with the LMILK and RP stages ( \xe2\x89\xa4 0.004). Ruminal NDF digestibility decreased from 69.7% at the LMILK stage to 54.4% at the HD stage and 54.9% at the RP stage ( = 0.001), whereas ruminal ADF digestibility decreased from 70.0% at the LMILK stage to 44.4% at the HD stage and 42.5% at the RP stage ( = 0.002). Minimum and mean ruminal pH were least for the LMILK stage, intermediate at the RP stage, and greatest at the HD stage ( = 0.016 and = 0.031, respectively). These data suggest that despite reductions in ruminal digestibility of NDF and ADF with advancing maturity, harvesting whole-crop oat and barley forage at the HD and RP stages of maturity did not negatively affect DMI, fermentation characteristics, or DE relative to whole-crop cereal forage harvested at the LMILK stage. labels: #Minerals'
b'Research has indicated that trace mineral (TM) supplementation may alter immune function and reduce morbidity associated with bovine respiratory disease. The objective of this experiment was to determine the influence of dietary Cu, Mn, and Zn supplementation on the performance, clinical signs, and TM balance of calves following a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and (MH) combination respiratory pathogen challenge. Steers ( = 16; 225 \xc2\xb1 20 kg BW) from a single ranch were processed, weaned, and randomly pairwise assigned to either the TM-supplemented (MIN) or the control (CON) experimental treatments. The MIN calves received an additional 150 mg of Cu, 130 mg of Mn, and 320 mg of Zn daily and the CON calves received the basal diet with no additional Cu, Mn, or Zn supplementation. The basal diet contained sufficient Mn and Zn but inadequate Cu based on published nutrient requirements. After 46 d on the experimental treatments, all calves were naturally exposed to a heifer persistently infected with BVDV type 1b for 4 d and then subsequently intratracheally challenged with MH. Data were analyzed using the GLIMMIX procedure of SAS with sampling time serving as a repeated measure and calf serving as the experimental unit. The respiratory challenge was validated via increased BVDV type 1b antibody concentrations, MH whole cell and leukotoxin antibody concentrations, rectal temperatures (TEMP), and subjective clinical severity scores (CS). Calf performance ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.48) was not affected by TM supplementation. Mineral supplementation also did not impact the CS or TEMP of calves ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.53). There was a treatment \xc3\x97 time (<0.001) interaction observed for liver Cu concentrations. The concentrations of Cu, Mn, Zn, and Fe within the liver; Cu, Mn, and Zn within the muscle; and Cu, Zn, and Fe within the serum were all impacted by time ( \xe2\x89\xa4 0.03). Calves receiving the MIN treatment had greater (<0.01) liver Cu and Mn concentrations compared with CON calves. In contrast, serum Cu and Fe concentrations were increased ( \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) in CON calves compared with MIN calves. Mineral supplementation did not impact TM concentrations within the muscle ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.38). The supplementation of Cu, Mn, and Zn can improve the Cu and Mn status within the liver and serum of calves in response to a BVDV and MH challenge. When Cu is supplemented to calves receiving a marginally Cu-deficient diet, Cu status within the body is significantly improved. labels: #Minerals'
b'Direct or indirect methods can be used to determine the DE and ME of feed ingredients for pigs. In situations when only the indirect approach is suitable, the regression method presents a robust indirect approach. Three experiments were conducted to compare the direct and regression methods for determining the DE and ME values of barley, sorghum, and wheat for pigs. In each experiment, 24 barrows with an average initial BW of 31, 32, and 33 kg were assigned to 4 diets in a randomized complete block design. The 4 diets consisted of 969 g barley, sorghum, or wheat/kg plus minerals and vitamins for the direct method; a corn-soybean meal reference diet (RD); the RD + 300 g barley, sorghum, or wheat/kg; and the RD + 600 g barley, sorghum, or wheat/kg. The 3 corn-soybean meal diets were used for the regression method. Each diet was fed to 6 barrows in individual metabolism crates for a 5-d acclimation followed by a 5-d period of total but separate collection of feces and urine in each experiment. Graded substitution of barley or wheat, but not sorghum, into the RD linearly reduced (<0.05) dietary DE and ME. The direct method-derived DE and ME for barley were 3,669 and 3,593 kcal/kg DM, respectively. The regressions of barley contribution to DE and ME in kilocalories against the quantity of barley DMI in kilograms generated 3,746 kcal DE/kg DM and 3,647 kcal ME/kg DM. The DE and ME for sorghum by the direct method were 4,097 and 4,042 kcal/kg DM, respectively; the corresponding regression-derived estimates were 4,145 and 4,066 kcal/kg DM. Using the direct method, energy values for wheat were 3,953 kcal DE/kg DM and 3,889 kcal ME/kg DM. The regressions of wheat contribution to DE and ME in kilocalories against the quantity of wheat DMI in kilograms generated 3,960 kcal DE/kg DM and 3,874 kcal ME/kg DM. The DE and ME of barley using the direct method were not different (0.3<<0.4) from those obtained using the regression method (3,669 vs. 3,746 and 3,593 vs. 3,647 kcal/kg DM, respectively). The direct method-derived DE and ME of sorghum were not different (0.5<<0.7) from those obtained using the regression method (4,097 vs. 4,145 and 4,042 vs. 4,066 kcal/kg DM, respectively). The direct method- and regression method-derived DE (3,953 and 3,960 kcal/kg DM, respectively) and ME (3,889 and 3,874 kcal/kg DM, respectively) of wheat were not different (0.8<<0.9). Results of these 3 experiments suggest that regression and direct methods do not give different estimates of DE and ME in barley, sorghum, and wheat for pigs. labels: #Minerals'
b'Ten ileal T-cannulated pigs (19.26 \xc2\xb1 1.06 kg) were used to evaluate the effects of a novel phytase on apparent ileal digestibility (AID) of AA and apparent total tract digestibility (ATTD) and hindgut disappearance of DM, GE, CP, crude fiber, NDF, and ADF as well as minerals balance. Pigs were fed in a duplicated 5 \xc3\x97 4 incomplete Latin square design (5 diets with 4 periods). Each period consisted of a 5-d adjustment period followed by a 3-d total collection of feces and urine and then a 2-d collection of ileal digesta. The 5 diets included a P-deficient basal diet (0.43% Ca and 0.38% total P) that was supplemented with 0 (negative control [NC]), 500, 1,000, or 20,000 phytase units (FTU)/kg phytase and a positive control (PC) diet that was P adequate (0.64% Ca and 0.52% total P). The addition of phytase to the NC diet improved (<0.05) AID of phytate from 11.1 to 62.8, 70.6, and 90.5% at the inclusion rates of 500, 1,000, and 20,000 FTU/kg, respectively. In general, phytase supplementation at a dose of 20,000 FTU/kg further increased (<0.05) AID of Ca, total P, and phytate and reduced (<0.05) the ileal phytate concentration compared with diets with 500 or 1,000 FTU/kg phytase. Pigs fed the diet with 20,000 FTU/kg phytase but not diets with 500 and 1,000 FTU/kg phytase showed improved (<0.05) ATTD of CP and AID of DM, GE, CP, Leu, Lys, Thr, Val, Asp, and Ser compared with pigs fed the PC or NC diet. However, hindgut disappearance of crude fiber and NDF (<0.05) were reduced in pigs fed the diet with 20,000 FTU/kg phytase compared with pigs fed the PC or NC diet. Pigs fed diets with 500 or 1,000 FTU/kg phytase had greater ATTD and retention of Ca and P than pigs fed the NC diet but less compared with pigs fed the diet with 20,000 FTU/kg phytase. Supplementation of 20,000 FTU/kg phytase to the NC diet improved (<0.05) digestibility of Na, Mn, and Zn as well as retention (%) of Zn. Increasing phytase supplementation doses from 0 to 1,000 FTU/kg linearly improved (<0.05) retention of Mg; meanwhile, digestibility of Mg and Mn and AID of Thr showed a linear increase trend ( = 0.084). In conclusion, supplementation of the novel phytase at doses up to 20,000 FTU/kg hydrolyzed most of the phytate (90%) and consequently further improved mineral and protein utilization. labels: #Minerals'
b'Four trials were conducted to evaluate the effects of flint corn processing and the replacement of corn with citrus pulp (CiP) in diets for Nellore feedlot cattle. In a 103-d finishing trial, 216 Nellore bulls (350 \xc2\xb1 24 kg initial BW) were used in a randomized complete block design with a 2 \xc3\x97 4 factorial arrangement of treatments. Factors included 2 processing methods, either ground corn (GC) or steam-flaked corn (FC), with CiP replacing each corn type at 4 levels (0, 25, 50, and 75% of DM). All diets contained 12% sugarcane bagasse and 88% concentrate (DM basis). Treatments were also evaluated in metabolism trials, in which 10 ruminally cannulated Nellore steers (389 \xc2\xb1 37 kg) were assigned to 2 independent but simultaneous 5 \xc3\x97 5 Latin squares, each using 1 method of corn processing (GC and FC). Interactions (<0.05) between corn processing and CiP inclusion level were observed for final BW, DMI, ADG, G:F, and HCW. With FC-based diets, added CiP linearly decreased final BW ( = 0.04), whereas with GC-based diets, added CiP quadratically increased final BW ( = 0.002). With FC-based diets, the inclusion of CiP linearly increased DMI ( = 0.03) and linearly decreased ADG ( = 0.03) and G:F ( = 0.001). Increasing CiP in GC-based diets quadratically increased DMI ( = 0.001), ADG ( = 0.005), and HCW ( = 0.003). In FC-based diets, CiP inclusion had no effect on HCW ( = 0.21). Dressing percent, LM area, and 12th-rib fat were not affected by diet ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.05). For steers fed GC diets, CiP inclusion in the diet quadratically decreased the molar proportion of isovalerate ( = 0.001) but linearly increased ruminal butyrate ( = 0.006). No differences ( \xe2\x89\xa5 0.16) were observed for total VFA concentrations, acetate:propionate ratio, and ruminal NH-N as CiP replaced GC. For steers fed FC diets, the molar proportion of acetate linearly increased ( = 0.002) whereas the proportion of propionate was linearly decreased (<0.001), resulting in a linear increase ( = 0.001) in the acetate:propionate ratio. Replacing corn with CiP linearly reduced NEm ( = 0.001) and NEg (<0.001) of FC-based diets but did not affect ( = 0.15) NE values of CG-based diets. Steam flaking flint corn improved cattle performance in this trial more than has been reported for dent corn in the published literature. labels: #Minerals'
b'There is growing concern that freshwater ecosystems may be negatively affected by ever-increasing anthropogenic inputs of extremely hard, highly alkaline effluent containing large quantities of Ca(2+), Mg(2+), CO3(2-), and HCO3(-) ions. In this study, the toxicity of rapid and extreme shifts in water hardness (38-600mg/L as CaCO3) and alkalinity (30-420mg/L as CaCO3) to Daphnia magna was tested, both independently and in combination. Within these ranges, where no precipitation event occurred, shifts in water hardness and/or alkalinity were not toxic to D. magna. In contrast, 98-100% of D. magna died within 96h after exposure to 600mg/L as CaCO3 water hardness and 420mg/L as CaCO3 alkalinity (LT50 of 60h with a 95% CI of 54.2-66.0h). In this treatment, a CaCO3 (calcite) precipitate formed in the water column which was ingested by and thoroughly coated the D. magna. Calcite collected from a mining impacted stream contained embedded organisms, suggesting field streams may also experience similar conditions and possibly increased mortality as observed in the lab tests. Although further investigation is required to determine the exact fate of aquatic organisms exposed to rapid calcite precipitation in the field, we caution that negative effects may occur more quickly or at lower concentrations of water hardness and alkalinity in which we observed effects in D. magna, because some species, such as aquatic insects, are more sensitive than cladocerans to changes in ionic strength. Our results provide evidence that both calcite precipitation and the major ion balance of waters should be managed in industrially affected ecosystems and we support the development of a hardness+alkalinity guideline for the protection of aquatic life. labels: #Minerals'
b"BACKGROUND: The influence of three irrigation treatments (T0, no stress; T1, soft stress; and, T2, moderate stress) on the key functional properties [fatty acids, sugar alcohols, organic acids, minerals, total polyphenols content (TPC), and antioxidant activity (AA)], sensory quality, and consumers' acceptance of table olives, cv. 'Manzanilla', was evaluated.RESULTS: A soft water stress, T1, led to table olives with the highest oil and dry matter contents, with the highest intensities of key sensory attributes and slightly, although not significant, higher values of consumer satisfaction degree. Besides, RDI in general (T1 and T2) slightly increased green colour, the content of linoleic acid, but decreased the content of phytic acid and some minerals.CONCLUSION: The soft RDI conditions are a good option for the cultivation of olive trees because they are environmentally friendly and simultaneously maintain or even improve the functionality, sensory quality, and consumer acceptance of table olives. \xc2\xa9 2016 Society of Chemical Industry. labels: #Minerals"
b'Leaching of arsenic (As) from excavated rock subjected to different drying methods is compared using sequential leaching tests and rapid small-scale column tests combined with a sequential extraction procedure. Although the total As content in the rock was low (8.81\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg(-1)), its resulting concentration in the leachate when leached at a liquid-to-solid ratio of 10\xc2\xa0L\xc2\xa0kg(-1) exceeded the environmental standard (10\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L(-1)). As existed mainly in dissolved forms in the leachates. All of the drying procedures applied in this study increased the leaching of As, with freeze-drying leading to the largest increase. Water extraction of As using the two tests showed different leaching behaviors as a function of the liquid-to-solid ratio, and achieved average extractions of up to 35.7% and 25.8% total As, respectively. Dissolution of As from the mineral surfaces and subsequent re-adsorption controlled the short-term release of As; dissolution of Fe, Al, and dissolved organic carbon played important roles in long-term As leaching. Results of the sequential extraction procedure showed that use of 0.05\xc2\xa0M (NH4)2SO4 underestimates the readily soluble As. Long-term water extraction removed almost all of the non-specifically sorbed As and most of the specifically sorbed As. The concept of pollution potential indices, which are easily determined by the sequential leaching test, is proposed in this study and is considered for possible use in assessing efficacy of treatment of excavated rocks. labels: #Minerals'
b'Numerous carbon dioxide mineralization (CM) processes have been proposed to overcome the slow rate of natural weathering of silicate minerals. Ten of these proposals are mentioned in this article. The proposals are described in terms of the four major areas relating to CM process design: pre-treatment, purification, carbonation, and reagent recycling operations. Any known specifics based on probable or representative operating and reaction conditions are listed, and basic analysis of the strengths and shortcomings associated with the individual process designs are given in this article. The processes typically employ physical or chemical pseudo-catalytic methods to enhance the rate of carbon dioxide mineralization; however, both methods have its own associated advantages and problems. To examine the feasibility of a CM process, three key aspects should be included in the evaluation criteria: energy use, operational considerations as well as product value and economics. Recommendations regarding the optimal level of emphasis and implementation of measures to control these aspects are given, and these will depend very much on the desired process objectives. Ultimately, a mix-and-match approach to process design might be required to provide viable and economic proposals for CM processes. labels: #Minerals'
b'OBJECTIVE: Advantages of introducing a salivary phosphoprotein homologue under standardized in vitro conditions to simulate the mineral-stabilizing properties of saliva have been proposed. This study longitudinally investigates the effects of casein, incorporated as a potential salivary phosphoprotein homologue in artificial saliva (AS) solutions with/without fluoride (F) on in vitro dentine lesion remineralization.DESIGN: Thin sections of bovine root dentine were demineralized and allocated randomly into 6 groups (n=18) having equivalent mineral loss (\xce\x94Z) after transverse microradiography (TMR). The specimens were remineralized using AS solutions containing casein 0\xce\xbcg/ml, F 0ppm (C0-F0); casein 0\xce\xbcg/ml, F 1ppm (C0-F1); casein 10\xce\xbcg/ml, F 0ppm (C10-F0); casein 10\xce\xbcg/ml, F 1ppm (C10-F1); casein 100\xce\xbcg/ml, F 0ppm (C100-F0) or casein 100\xce\xbcg/ml, F 1ppm (C100-F1) for 28days with TMR taken every 7 days.RESULTS: Surface mineral precipitation, evident in group C0-F1, was apparently inhibited in groups with casein incorporation. Repeated measures ANOVA with Bonferroni correction revealed higher \xce\x94Z for non-F and non-casein groups than for their counterparts (p<0.001). Subsequent multiple comparisons showed that mineral gain was higher (p<0.001) with 10\xce\xbcg/ml casein than with 100\xce\xbcg/ml when F was present in the earlier stages of remineralization, with both groups achieving almost complete remineralization after 28 days.CONCLUSION: Casein is a potential salivary phosphoprotein homologue that could be employed for in vitro dentine remineralization studies. Concentration related effects may be clinically significant and thus must be further examined. labels: #Minerals'
b"It is imperative to evaluate precise nutrient requirements of animals in order to optimize productivity and minimize feed cost and nutrient excretions. The current non-phytate phosphorus (NPP) recommendation for broilers is based on the papers published 30 years ago. However, today's commercial birds are quite different from those before 30 years. Therefore, the present experiment was conducted with growing male broiler chickens to evaluate an optimal dietary NPP level of broiler chickens fed a conventional corn-soybean meal diet from 4 to 6 weeks of age. The 1-day-old chicks were fed corn-soybean meal diet containing 0.39% NPP from 1 to 3 weeks of age. At 22 days of age, 360 birds were selected and randomly allotted by BW to one of 10 dietary treatments with six replicate cages of six birds per cage for each treatment. Birds were fed the P-unsupplemented corn-soybean meal basal diet and the basal diet supplemented with inorganic P as CaHPO4\xc2\xb7H2O ranging from 0.00% to 0.45% with 0.05% increment from 4 to 6 weeks of age. The dietary NPP levels were 0.09%, 0.14%, 0.20%, 0.24%, 0.30%, 0.34%, 0.38%, 0.45%, 0.49% and 0.54%, respectively, and the dietary Ca level was fixed at 0.90% for all treatments. The results showed that average daily gain, serum inorganic P concentration, tibia bone strength, tibia ash percentage and P percentage, tibia bone mineral content (BMC) and density (BMD), middle toe ash percentage and P percentage, middle toe BMC, total body BMC and BMD were affected (P<0.0001) by dietary NPP level, and increased linearly (P<0.0001) and quadratically (P<0.003) as dietary NPP levels increased. Optimal dietary NPP levels estimated based on fitted broken-line models (P<0.0001) of the above indices are 0.21%, 0.29%, 0.29%, 0.29%, 0.29%, 0.31%, 0.29%, 0.30%, 0.27%, 0.29% and 0.28%, respectively. It is suggested that the total body BMC and BMD, and middle toe ash P and BMC might be new, sensitive and non-invasive criteria to evaluate the dietary NPP requirements of broilers. The optimal dietary NPP level would be 0.31% for broiler chickens fed a conventional corn-soybean meal diet from 4 to 6 weeks of age. labels: #Minerals"
b'MgSiO3 tetragonal garnet, which is the last of the missing phases of experimentally predicted high-pressure polymorphs of pyroxene, has been discovered in a shocked meteorite. The garnet is formed from low-Ca pyroxene in the host rock through a solid-state transformation at 17 to 20 GPa and 1900\xc2\xb0 to 2000\xc2\xb0C. On the basis of the degree of cation ordering in its crystal structure, which can be deduced from electron diffraction intensities, the cooling rate of the shock-induced melt veins from ~2000\xc2\xb0C was estimated to be higher than 10(3)\xc2\xb0C/s. This cooling rate sets the upper bound for the shock-temperature increase in the bulk meteorite at ~900\xc2\xb0C. labels: #Minerals'
b"Rewetted, previously drained fens often remain sources rather than sinks for carbon and nutrients. To date, it is poorly understood which soil characteristics stimulate carbon and nutrient mobilization upon rewetting. Here, we assess the hypothesis that a large pool of iron in the soil negatively affects fen restoration success, as flooding-induced iron reduction (Fe3+ to Fe2+) causes a disproportionate breakdown of organic matter that is coupled with a release of inorganic compounds. We collected intact soil cores in two iron-poor and two iron-rich drained fens, half of which were subjected to a rewetting treatment while the other half was kept drained. Prolonged drainage led to the mobilization of nitrate (NO3-,>1 mmol L-1) in all cores, regardless of soil iron content. In the rewetted iron-rich cores, a sharp increase in pore water iron (Fe) concentrations correlated with concentrations of inorganic carbon (TIC,>13 mmol L-1) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC,>16 mmol L-1). Additionally, ammonium (NH4+) accumulated up to phytotoxic concentrations of 1 mmol L-1 in the pore water of the rewetted iron-rich cores. Disproportionate mobilization of Fe, TIC, DOC and NH4+ was absent in the rewetted iron-poor cores, indicating a strong interaction between waterlogging and iron-mediated breakdown of organic matter. Concentrations of dissolved phosphorus (P) rose slightly in all cores upon rewetting, but remained low throughout the experiment. Our results suggest that large pools of iron in the top soil of drained fens can hamper the restoration of the fen's sink-service for ammonium and carbon upon rewetting. We argue that negative effects of iron should be most apparent in fens with fluctuating water levels, as temporary oxygenation allows frequent regeneration of Fe3+. We conclude that rewetting of iron-poor fens may be more feasible for restoration. labels: #Minerals"
b'The green synthesized Mn3O4 nanoparticles (manganese-oxide nanoparticles) using Ananas comosus (L.) peel extract was characterized by various techniques. HR-SEM photograph showed that manganese-oxide nanoparticles (Mn-oxide NPs) were spherical in shape, with an average size of 40-50 nm. The Zeta potential revealed the surface charge of Mn-oxide NPs to be negative. Further, the Mn-oxide NPs were dietary supplemented for freshwater prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii. The experimental basal diets were supplemented with Mn-oxide NPs at the rates of 0 (control), 3.0, 6.0, 9.0, 12, 15 and 18 mg/kg dry feed weight. The as-supplemented Mn-oxide NPs were fed in M. rosenbergii for a period of 90 days. The experimental study demonstrated that prawns fed with diet supplemented with 3-18 mg Mn-oxide NPs/kg shows enhanced (P<0.05) growth performance, including final weight and weight gain (WG). Significant differences (P<0.05) in feed conversion ratio (FCR) were observed in prawn fed with different diets. Additionally, prawns fed with 3.0-18 mg/kg Mn-oxide NPs supplemented diets achieved significant (P<0.05) improvement in growth performance, digestive enzyme activities and muscle biochemical compositions, while, the prawns fed with 16 mg/kg of Mn-oxide NPs showed enhanced performance. Prawns fed on diet supplemented with 16 mg/kg Mn-oxide NPs showed significantly (P<0.05) higher total protein level. The antioxidants enzymatic activity (SOD and CAT) metabolic enzymes status in muscle and hepatopancreas showed no significant (P>0.05) alterations in prawns fed with 3.0-18 mg/kg of Mn-oxide NPs supplemented diets. Consequently, the present work proposed that 16 mg/kg of Mn-oxide NPs could be supplemented for flexible enhanced survival, growth and production of M. rosenbergii. Therefore, the data of the present study recommend the addition of 16 mg/kg of Mn-oxide NPs diet to developed prawn growth and antioxidant defense system. labels: #Minerals'
b'The hypothesis of direct coding, assuming the direct contact of pairs of coding molecules with amino acid side chains in hollow unit cells (cellules) of a regular crystal-structure mineral is proposed. The coding nucleobase-containing molecules in each cellule (named "lithocodon") partially shield each other; the remaining free space determines the stereochemical character of the filling side chain. Apatite-group minerals are considered as the most preferable for this type of coding (named "lithocoding"). A scheme of the cellule with certain stereometric parameters, providing for the isomeric selection of contacting molecules is proposed. We modelled the filling of cellules with molecules involved in direct coding, with the possibility of coding by their single combination for a group of stereochemically similar amino acids. The regular ordered arrangement of cellules enables the polymerization of amino acids and nucleobase-containing molecules in the same direction (named "lithotranslation") preventing the shift of coding. A table of the presumed "LithoCode" (possible and optimal lithocodon assignments for abiogenically synthesized \xce\xb1-amino acids involved in lithocoding and lithotranslation) is proposed. The magmatic nature of the mineral, abiogenic synthesis of organic molecules and polymerization events are considered within the framework of the proposed "volcanic scenario". labels: #Minerals'
b'Triclosan (TCS) is an ionizable synthetic antimicrobial that has been found to be a persistent environmental contaminant with potential for bioaccumulation. Standard laboratory assays have shown that TCS is toxic to aquatic organisms; however, varied environmental conditions could impact this risk. For example, we would predict that sorption to dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in natural surface waters would reduce the bioavailability and, therefore, toxicity of TCS. To better understand the potential risk that TCS poses to wild fish, we evaluated the toxicity of TCS to zebrafish in the presence of DOC. Zebrafish were exposed to TCS (0-900\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg TCS/L), DOC (0-25\xe2\x80\x89mg/L), or TCS (0-900\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg TCS/L) together with either 10 or 25\xe2\x80\x89mg DOC/L from 8 to 120\xe2\x80\x89h postfertilization through static waterborne exposure. We compared impacts of TCS alone or in conjunction with DOC on mortality, development, and hatching success. Exposure to TCS in the presence of DOC improves survival and hatching success, and reduces the incidence of developmental toxicity. However, since the presence of DOC did not completely prevent sublethal toxicity, our data suggest that given its bioaccumulation potential, developmental toxicity of TCS under environmental conditions still warrants concern. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objective of this study was to determine the effect of mineral chelator addition during skim milk powder (SMP) manufacture on the solubility, turbidity, soluble protein, and heat stability (HS). Three chelators (sodium citrate dihydrate, sodium polyphosphate, and disodium EDTA) at 3 different concentrations (5, 15, and 25mM) were added to skim milk concentrate (30% total solids), and the pH was adjusted to 6.65 before spray drying to produce SMP. Spray-dried SMP samples were tested for solubility index (SI). Additionally, samples were reconstituted to contain 9% total solids, adjusted to pH 7.0, and tested for turbidity, protein content from supernatants of ultracentrifuged samples, and HS. Lower SI values were observed for samples treated with 5mM disodium EDTA and sodium polyphosphate than control samples or samples with 5mM sodium citrate dihydrate. Furthermore, lower SI values were observed with an increased level of chelating agents regardless of chelator type. A decreased turbidity value was found with increasing levels of mineral chelating salt treatment. Low turbidity with increasing levels of added chelators may be associated with the dissociation of caseins from micelles. Furthermore, higher protein content was observed in supernatants of ultracentrifuged samples treated with increased level of chelators as compared with the control sample. Higher HS was observed in samples treated with 5mM compared with samples treated with 25mM mineral chelator. The results suggest improved solubility and HS upon addition of mineral chelators to SMP during its manufacture. labels: #Minerals'
b"We report on the leaching of heavy elements from cemented waste flowable fill, known as controlled low-strength materials (CLSM), for potential mine backfill application. Semi-dynamic tank leaching tests were carried out on laboratory-scale monoliths cured for 28 days and tested over 64 days of leaching with pure de-ionised water as leachant. Mineral processing waste include flotation tailings from a Spanish nickel-copper sulphide concentrate, and two bioleach neutralisation precipitates (from processing at 35\xc2\xb0C and 70\xc2\xb0C) from a South African arsenopyrite concentrate. Encapsulated CLSM formulations were evaluated to assess the reduction in leaching by encapsulating a 'hazardous' CLSM core within a layer of relatively 'inert' CLSM. The effect of each bioleach waste in CLSM core and tailings in CLSM encapsulating medium, are assessed in combination and in addition to CLSM with ordinary silica sand. Results show that replacing silica sand with tailings, both as core and encapsulating matrix, significantly reduced leachability of heavy elements, particularly As (from 0.008-0.190 mg/l to 0.008-0.060 mg/l), Ba (from 0.435-1.540 mg/l to 0.050-0.565 mg/l), and Cr (from 0.006-0.458 mg/l to 0.004-0.229 mg/l), to below the 'Dutch List' of groundwater contamination intervention values. Arsenic leaching was inherently high from both bioleach precipitates but was significantly reduced to below guideline values with encapsulation and replacing silica sand with tailings. Tailings proved to be a valuable encapsulating matrix largely owing to small particle size and lower hydraulic conductivity reducing diffusion transport of heavy elements. Field-scale trials would be necessary to prove this concept of encapsulation in terms of scale and construction practicalities, and further geochemical investigation to optimise leaching performance. Nevertheless, this work substantiates the need for alternative backfill techniques for sustainable management of hazardous finely-sized bulk mineral residues. labels: #Minerals"
b"In this study, laboratory experiments were conducted to investigate the influences of H2S injection on the capacity of CO2's solubility trapping and mineral trapping. Results demonstrated that the preferential dissolution of H2S gas into brine (compared with pure CO2) resulted in the decrease of pH, consequently inhibiting the CO2's solubility trappings to some extent. Then, the lower pH droved more severe corrosion of primary minerals, favored more secondary mineral to be formed. In addition, the discovery of pyrite demonstrated that H2S could precipitate by the formation of sulfide mineral trapping. As the secondary carbon sink minerals, ankerite and dawsonite were observed in the pure CO2-brine-sandstone interaction. However, there were no secondary carbonates found through the SEM images and EDS analyses, implied that the injection of H2S probably may partially inhibit the precipitation of Fe-bearing carbonate minerals such as ankerite in the CO2-H2S-brine-sandstone interaction in this short term experiments. labels: #Minerals"
b'Iron reduction is one of the important organic matter (OM) mineralization pathway in sediments. Here we investigated the rates and the relative contribution of iron reduction to OM mineralization in Zhushan bay (ZSB, cyanobacterial bloom biomass (CBB)-dominated habitats) and East Taihu Lake (ETL, submerged macrophypes (SM)-dominated habitats) of Lake Taihu, China. Anaerobic microcosm incubation revealed that the rate of iron reduction at ZSB (4.42\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol\xc2\xa0cm(-3)\xc2\xa0d(-1)) in summer was almost 1.5 times higher than at ETL (3.13\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol\xc2\xa0cm(-3)\xc2\xa0d(-1)). Iron reduction accounted for 66.5% (ZSB) and 31.8% (ETL) of total anaerobic carbon mineralization, respectively. No detectable methanogenesis was found at ZSB, while methanogenesis was responsible for 16.7% of total anaerobic respiration in sediments of ETL. Geochemical analysis of solid phase constituents indicated that ZSB surface sediments experienced highly oxidizing conditions with much higher amorphous Fe(III) (71\xc2\xa0mmol\xc2\xa0m(-2)) than ETL (11\xc2\xa0mmol\xc2\xa0m(-2)). Conversely, AVS inventories at ETL (38\xc2\xa0mmol\xc2\xa0m(-2)) were up to 30 times higher than at ZSB (1.27\xc2\xa0mmol\xc2\xa0m(-2)), indicating significant sulfate reduction in sediments of ETL. Overall results suggested that varying carbon sources and distinct geochemical characterizations of the sediments in contrasting habitats significantly influenced the rate of iron reduction and the pathway of C mineralization in a large freshwater lake. labels: #Minerals'
b"Arsenic (As) is an emerging pollutant causing inhibition in growth and development of plants resulting into phytotoxicity. On the other hand, silicon (Si) has been suggested as a modulator in abiotic and biotic stresses that, enhances plant's physiological adaptations in response to several stresses including heavy metal stress. In this study, we used roots of hydroponically grown 14 day old seedlings of Brassica juncea var. Varuna treated with 150\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM As, 1.5\xc2\xa0mM Si and both in combination for 96\xc2\xa0h duration. Application of Si modulated the effect of As by improving morphological traits of root along with the development of both primary and lateral roots. Changes observed in root traits showed positive correlation with As induced cell death, accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide (NO) and intracellular superoxide radicals (O2(-)). Addition of 1.5\xc2\xa0mM Si during As stress increased accumulation of As in roots. Mineral nutrient analysis was done using energy-dispersive X-ray fluorescence (EDXRF) technique and positively correlated with increased cysteine, proline, MDA, H2O2 and activity of antioxidant enzymes (SOD, CAT and APX). The results obtained from the above biochemical approaches support the protective and active role of Si in the regulation of As stress through the changes in root developmental process. labels: #Minerals"
b'In terminal Ediacaran strata of South China, the onset of calcareous biomineralization is preserved in the paleontological transition from Conotubus to Cloudina in repetitious limestone facies of the Dengying Formation. Both fossils have similar size, funnel-in-funnel construction, and epibenthic lifestyle, but Cloudina is biomineralized, whereas Conotubus is not. To provide environmental context for this evolutionary milestone, we conducted a high-resolution elemental and stable isotope study of the richly fossiliferous Gaojiashan Member. Coincident with the first appearance of Cloudina is a significant positive carbonate carbon isotope excursion (up to +6\xe2\x80\xb0) and an increase in the abundance and (34) S composition of pyrite. In contrast, \xce\xb4(34) S values of carbonate-associated sulfate remain steady throughout the succession, resulting in anomalously large (>70\xe2\x80\xb0) sulfur isotope fractionations in the lower half of the member. The fractionation trend likely relates to changes in microbial communities, with sulfur disproportionation involved in the lower interval, whereas microbial sulfate reduction was the principal metabolic pathway in the upper. We speculate that the coupled paleontological and biogeochemical anomalies may have coincided with an increase in terrestrial weathering fluxes of sulfate, alkalinity, and nutrients to the depositional basin, which stimulated primary productivity, the spread of an oxygen minimum zone, and the development of euxinic conditions in subtidal and basinal environments. Enhanced production and burial of organic matter is thus directly connected to the carbon isotope anomaly, and likely promoted pyritization as the main taphonomic pathway for Conotubus and other soft-bodied Ediacara biotas. Our studies suggest that the Ediacaran confluence of ecological pressures from predation and environmental pressures from an increase in seawater alkalinity set the stage for an unprecedented geobiological response: the evolutionary novelty of animal biomineralization. labels: #Minerals'
b'New empirical and quantitative data in the study of calcium carbonate biomineralization and an expanded coralline psbA framework for phylomineralogy are provided for crustose coralline red algae. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy dispersive spectrometry (SEM-EDS) pinpointed the exact location of calcium carbonate crystals within overgrown reproductive conceptacles in rhodolith-forming Lithothamnion species from the Gulf of Mexico and Pacific Panama. SEM-EDS and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis confirmed the elemental composition of these calcium carbonate crystals to be aragonite. After spore release, reproductive conceptacles apparently became overgrown by new vegetative growth, a strategy that may aid in sealing the empty conceptacle chamber, hence influencing the chemistry of the microenvironment and in turn promoting aragonite crystal growth. The possible relevance of various types of calcium carbonate polymorphs present in the complex internal structure and skeleton of crustose corallines is discussed. This is the first study to link SEM, SEM-EDS, XRD, Microtomography and X-ray microscopy data of aragonite infill in coralline algae with phylomineralogy. The study contributes to the growing body of literature characterizing and speculating about how the relative abundances of carbonate biominerals in corallines may vary in response to changes in atmospheric pCO2 , ocean acidification, and global warming. labels: #Minerals'
b"Little information is available on the energetics of buoyancy modulation in aflagellate phytoplankton, which comprises the majority of autotrophic cells found in the ocean. Here, we computed for three aflagellate species of marine phytoplankton (Emiliania huxleyi, Thalassiosira pseudonana, and Ethmodiscus rex) the theoretical minimum energy cost as photons absorbed and nitrogen resource\xc2\xa0required of the key physiological mechanisms (i.e., replacement of quaternary ammonium by dimethyl-sulfoniopropionate, storage of polysaccharides, and cell wall biosynthesis) affecting the cell's vertical movement as a function of nitrogen (N) availability. These energy costs were also normalized to the capacity of each buoyancy mechanism to modulate sinking or rising rates based on Stokes' law. The three physiological mechanisms could act as ballast in the three species tested in conditions of low N availability at a low fraction (<12%) of the total photon energy cost for growth. Cell wall formation in E.\xc2\xa0huxleyi was the least costly ballast strategy, whereas in T.\xc2\xa0pseudonana, the photon energy cost of the three ballast strategies was similar. In E.\xc2\xa0rex, carbohydrate storage and mobilization appear to be energetically cheaper than modulations in organic solute synthesis to achieve vertical migration. This supports the carbohydrate-ballast strategy for vertical migration for this species, but argues against the theory of replacement of low- or high-density organic solutes. This study brings new insights into the energy cost and potential selective advantages of several strategies modulating the buoyancy of aflagellate marine phytoplankton. labels: #Minerals"
b'In vivo microcomputed tomography (\xce\xbcCT) enables real-time assessment of bone regeneration. The aim of this \xce\xbcCT and histologic experiment was to assess guided bone regeneration (GBR) around standardized calvarial defects in rats using particulate graft material (Bio-Oss) with and without collagen membranes (CMs). Eighteen female Sprague-Dawley rats aged 6 weeks and weighing 300 g were used. With the rats under general anesthesia, calvaria were exposed and a full-thickness standardized defect was created on the parietal bone. For treatment, rats were randomly assigned to the following three groups: (1) CM group; (2) Bio-Oss group; and (3) Bio-Oss + CM group. Bone volume and bone mineral density (BMD) of newly formed bone (NFB) and remnant bone particles were measured at baseline and 2, 4, 6, and 10 weeks after the operations using real-time in vivo \xce\xbcCT. At 10 weeks, all animals were sacrificed and calvarial tissues were assessed histologically. In the CM group, a significant increase in mean \xc2\xb1 standard deviation (SD) BMD of NFB was observed at 6 weeks (0.32 \xc2\xb1 0.02 g/mm(3)) (P<.01) compared with baseline. In the Bio-Oss group, mean \xc2\xb1 SD volume (3.03 \xc2\xb1 0.14 mm(3)) (P<.05) and BMD (0.14 \xc2\xb1 0.01 g/mm(3)) of NFB significantly increased at 6 weeks compared with baseline (P<.01). In the Bio-Oss + CM group, mean \xc2\xb1 SD volume (0.98 \xc2\xb1 0.19 mm(3)) and BMD (0.13 \xc2\xb1 0.01 g/mm(3)) of NFB significantly increased at 4 weeks compared with baseline (P<.01). In th Bio-Oss + CM group, mean \xc2\xb1 SD volume (3.5 \xc2\xb1 0.7 mm(3)) and BMD (0.44 \xc2\xb1 0.03 g/mm(3)) of remnant bone particles were significantly reduced at 10 weeks compared with baseline values (5.8 \xc2\xb1 0.96 mm(3) and 1.3 \xc2\xb1 0.02 g/mm(3)) (P<.05). Although histologic analysis revealed NFB in all the study groups, the Bio-Oss + CM group exhibited the most. The results of this study revealed that, in real time, new bone formation starts as early as 4 weeks in standardized calvarial defects undergoing GBR with Bio-Oss + CM, compared with new bone formation at 6 weeks in defects undergoing GBR with Bio-Oss alone. labels: #Minerals'
b'The objective of the present real-time in vivo experiment was to assess guided bone regeneration (GBR) in standardized calvarial defects using particulate graft material (Bio-Oss) and \xce\xb2-tricalcium phosphate (\xce\xb2-TCP) with adjunct recombinant human platelet-derived growth factor (rhPDGF) therapy. Eighteen female Sprague-Dawley rats with a mean age and weight of 8 \xc2\xb1 0.53 weeks and 250 \xc2\xb1 0.49 g, respectively, were used. Following surgical exposure, a full-thickness standardized calvarial defect was created on the parietal bone using a trephine drill with an outer diameter of 4.6 mm. For treatment, rats were randomly divided into three groups (six rats per group): (1) control; (2) rhPDGF + Bio-Oss, and (3) rhPDGF + \xce\xb2-TCP. Volume of newly formed bone (NFB), bone mineral density (BMD) of NFB, volume of remnant bone particles, and BMD of remnant bone particles were assessed using in vivo microcomputed tomography. Measurements were made at baseline and at 2, 4, 6, and 10 weeks after the surgical procedures. At 10 weeks, all animals were sacrificed and calvarial tissues were assessed histologically. In the control group, a significant increase in BMD of NFB was observed at 6 weeks (mean \xc2\xb1 standard deviation [SD], 0.32 \xc2\xb1 0.002 g/mm(3)) (P<.01) from baseline, and the defect did not regenerate completely. In the rhPDGF + Bio-Oss group, mean \xc2\xb1 SD volume (2.40 \xc2\xb1 0.25 mm(3)) (P<.01) and BMD (0.13 \xc2\xb1 0.01 g/mm(3)) of NFB significantly increased at 4 weeks and 6 weeks, respectively, from baseline (P<.001). In the rhPDGF + \xce\xb2-TCP group, mean \xc2\xb1 SD volume (2.01 \xc2\xb1 0.7 mm(3)) and BMD (0.12 \xc2\xb1 0.02 g/mm(3)) of NFB significantly increased at 4 weeks from baseline (P<.01). In the rhPDGF + Bio-Oss and rhPDGF + \xce\xb2-TCP groups, mean \xc2\xb1 SD BMD of remnant bone particles (0.31 \xc2\xb1 0.11 g/mm(3) and 0.23 \xc2\xb1 0.01 g/mm(3)) showed significant reduction at 6 and 10 weeks, respectively, compared with baseline values (1.12 \xc2\xb1 0.06 g/mm(3) and 0.92 \xc2\xb1 0.01 g/mm(3), respectively) (P<.001). Histologic results at 10 weeks showed NBF in the rhPDGF + Bio-Oss and rhPDGF + \xce\xb2-TCP groups. In real time assessment, when rhPDGF was added to \xce\xb2-TCP, BMD and bone hardness significantly increased compared with the other two groups. labels: #Minerals'
b'Bacterial adhesion to mineral surfaces is an important but underappreciated process. To decipher the molecular level process and mechanism, the adhesion of Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 cells to goethite was investigated using flow-cell attenuated total reflectance (ATR) Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy coupled with two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy (2D-COS) analysis. The FTIR results indicate that bacterial phosphate-moieties play an important role in the formation of mono- and bidentate inner-sphere complexes, whereas carboxylic groups on cell surface only have a minor contribution to its adhesion. The 2D-COS analysis in short-term (0-120 min) and long-term (2-18 h) stages reveal that the adhesion process was in the following sequence: change in H-bonds of proteins on cell surfaces>formation of monodentate inner-sphere surface complexes>formation of outer-sphere surface complexes>transformation of protein secondary structure on cell surfaces>formation of additional bridging bidentate surface complexes. In addition, the adhesion of MR-1 cells on goethite was pH dependent due to pH impacts on the cell structure and the interface charge. The in situ ATR-FTIR integrated with 2D-COS analysis highlights its great potential in exploring complex surface reactions with microbes involved. These results improve our understanding of microbe-mineral interactions at the molecular level and have significant implications for a series of biogeochemical processes. labels: #Minerals'
b"OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of long-term exposure to environmental cadmium on eight mineral element's metabolic balance of human body.METHODS: To choose a high cadmium area polluted by smelting and mining north of Guangdong province and a cadmium-free area with a similar economic level, and living and eating habit of residents as a contrast from April 2011 to August 2012. Stratified random sampling and clustered sampling method were adopted to choose the non-occupationally cadmium-exposed respondents who have lived in local area for more than 15 years, older than 40 years, having local rice and vegetable as the main dietary source, with simple and relatively stable diet, and without diabetes, kidney disease, thyroid disease, liver disease or other history of chronic disease. This study included 298 respondents, of whom 155 were in cadmium exposure group and 143 in control group. Questionnaires was used to acquire their health status and their morning urine samples were collected. Electrolytically coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was used to test the concentrations of sodium(Na), magnesium (Mg), phosphorus (P), potassium (K), calcium (Ca), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn) and iodine (I). The Mann-Whitney U test method was used to compare the differences of concentrations of urinary cadmium, Na, Mg, P, K, Ca, Cu, Zn, I, and the ratio of Na to K (Na/K), Ca to P (Ca/P) between exposed group and control group.\xcf\x87(2) test was used to compare the abnormal rate of urinary cadmium between exposed group and control group. Pearson correlation and multiple regression method were used to investigate the relationship between urinary cadmium levels, gender, age, smoking, passive smoking, and minerals.RESULTS: The urinary cadmium level P50 (P25-P75) in exposed group was 5.45 (2.62-10.68) \xce\xbcg/g\xc2\xb7cr, which was higher than that of the control group, which was 1.69 (1.22-2.36) \xce\xbcg/g\xc2\xb7cr (Z=-10.49,P<0.001). The abnormal rate of urinary cadmium was 51.6% (80/155), which was higher than that of the control group (2.8 %(4/143)) (\xcf\x87(2)= 87.56, P<0.001). The urinary Ca, Cu, Zn, and I level P50 (P25-P75) of exposed group were 173.80 (114.40-251.70), 20.55 (14.95-28.44), 520.23 (390.25-647.15), and 246.94 (203.65-342.97) \xce\xbcg/g\xc2\xb7cr, which were higher than those in control group (142.42 (96.87-179.11), 15.44 (12.26-20.98), 430.09 (309.85-568.78) and 213.85 (156.70-281.63) \xce\xbcg/g\xc2\xb7cr, respectively) (Z values were-4.33,-5.04,-3.47 and-4.24, all P values<0.001). The urinary P, K level P50 (P25-P75) of exposed group were 582.50 (463.20-742.8), 890.10(666.00-1 305.40) \xce\xbcg/g\xc2\xb7cr, which were lower than control group (694.50 (546.20-851.17), 1 098.58(904.53-1 479.18) \xce\xbcg/g\xc2\xb7cr) (Z values were-3.36,-4.02, all P values<0.001). on Based the results of Pearson correlation analysis, urinary cadmium was positively correlated with urinary Ca, Cu, Zn, and I, and the correlation coefficients were 0.31, 0.61, 0.38, and 0.25, respectively (all P values<0.05). Based on the results of multiple regression analysis, urinary cadmium levels contributed most to the metabolic balance of urinary Ca, Cu, Zn and I. The standardized regression coefficients were 0.31, 0.59, 0.39, and 0.24, respectively (all P values<0.001).CONCLUSION: Long-term environmental exposure to cadmium affected the metabolic balance of Ca, Cu, Zn and I in human body. labels: #Minerals"
b'Many physical and chemical processes control the extent of Fe(III) oxyhydroxide reduction by dissimilatory Fe(III)-reducing bacteria. The surface precipitation of secondary Fe minerals on Fe(III) oxyhydroxides limits the extent of microbial Fe(III) reduction, but this phenomenon has not yet been observed in nature. This paper reports the observation of secondary Fe-mineral (goethite) encrustation on ferrihydrite surface within freshwater sediment up to 10\xc2\xa0cm deep. The sediment surface was characterized by the predominance of ferrihydrites with biogenic stalks and sheaths. An Fe(II)-oxidizing bacterium (Gallionellaceae) was detected by 16S rRNA gene analysis at sediment depths of 1 and 2\xc2\xa0cm. Fe(2+) concentration in the sediment pore water was relatively higher at 2-4\xc2\xa0cm depths. The 16S rRNA genes affiliated with dissimilatory Fe(III)-reducing bacteria were detected at 1, 2, and 4\xc2\xa0cm depths. The results of the Fe K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis suggested the presence of goethite and siderite at depths below 3\xc2\xa0cm. However, the change in the Fe-mineral composition was restricted to sediment depths between 3 and 4\xc2\xa0cm, despite the presence of abundant ferrihydrite at depths below 4\xc2\xa0cm. An increase in CH4 concentration was observed at deeper than 6\xc2\xa0cm. Stable isotopic analysis of CH4 in the pore water indicated that acetoclastic CH4 occurred at depths below 7\xc2\xa0cm. Transmission electron microscope observations suggested the presence of goethite and siderite on stalks and sheaths at depths below 3\xc2\xa0cm. Results from conversion electron yield EXAFS analysis suggested that goethite dominated at 10\xc2\xa0cm depth, thereby indicating that ferrihydrite was encrusted by goethite at this depth. Moreover, the incomplete reduction of ferrihydrite below depths of 4\xc2\xa0cm was not due to the lack of organic carbon, but was possibly due to the surface encrustation of goethite on ferrihydrite. labels: #Minerals'
b'The chemical properties, mineral contents, fatty acid and tocopherol contents of seed and seed oils of some citrus genus provided from several locations in Turkey and Saudi Arabia were determined. While Ca contents of seeds were between 5018 mg/kg (K\xc3\xbctdiken lemon) and 7619 mg/kg (kinnow mandarin), K contents of seeds varied between 7007 mg/kg (Orlando orange) and 10334 mg/kg (kinnow mandarin). Glucose and fructose contents of citrus seed samples varied between 3.75 g/kg and 5.75 g/kg, and 4.09 g/kg and 6.03 g/kg. Palmitic, oleic and linoleic acids were established as dominant fatty acids. Palmitic, oleic and linoleic acid contents of citrus seed oils varied between 19.6% (K\xc3\xbctdiken lemon) and 26.2% (pineapple orange), 21.3% (kinnow mandarin) and 31.4% (K\xc3\xbctdiken lemon) and 32.3% (K\xc3\xbctdiken lemon) and 43.7% (kinnow mandarin), respectively. The total amount of tocopherols of Turkish citrus oil varied between 0.5 mg/100 g (Fremont mandarin) and 18.8 mg/100 g (bitter orange). labels: #Minerals'
b'INTRODUCTION: BoneCeramic (Straumann, Basel, Switzerland) can regenerate bone in alveolar defects after tooth extraction, but it is unknown whether it is feasible to move a tooth through BoneCeramic grafting sites. The objective of this study was to investigate 3-dimensional real-time root resorption and bone responses in grafted sites during orthodontic tooth movement.METHODS: Sixty 5-week-old rats were randomly assigned to 3 groups to receive BoneCeramic, natural bovine cancellous bone particles (Bio-Oss; Geistlich Pharma, Wolhusen, Switzerland), or no graft, after the extraction of the maxillary left first molar. After 4 weeks, the maxillary left second molar was moved into the extraction site for 28 days. Dynamic bone microstructures and root resorption were evaluated using in-vivo microcomputed tomography. Stress distribution and corresponding tissue responses were examined by the finite element method and histology. Mixed model analysis of variance was performed to compare the differences among time points with Bonferroni post-hoc tests at the significance level of P<0.05.RESULTS: The BoneCeramic group had the least amount of tooth movement and root resorption volumes and craters, and the highest bone volume fraction, trabecular number, and mean trabecular thickness, followed by the Bio-Oss and the control groups. The highest stress accumulated in the cervical region of the mesial roots.CONCLUSIONS: BoneCeramic has better osteoconductive potential and induces less root resorption compared with Bio-Oss grafting and naturally recovered extraction sites. labels: #Minerals'
b'The characteristics and kinetics of redox transformation of a redox mediator, anthraquinone-2-sulfonate (AQS), during microbial goethite reduction by Shewanella decolorationis S12, a dissimilatory iron reduction bacterium (DIRB), were investigated to provide insights into "redox mediator-iron oxide" interaction in the presence of DIRB. Two pre-incubation reaction systems of the "strain S12- goethite" and the "strain S12-AQS" were used to investigate the dynamics of goethite reduction and AQS redox transformation. Results show that the concentrations of goethite and redox mediator, and the inoculation cell density all affect the characteristics of microbial goethite reduction, kinetic transformation between oxidized and reduced species of the redox mediator. Both abiotic and biotic reactions and their coupling regulate the kinetic process for "Quinone-Iron" interaction in the presence of DIRB. Our results provide some new insights into the characteristics and mechanisms of interaction among "quinone-DIRB- goethite" under biotic/abiotic driven. labels: #Minerals'
b'Extended field trials to remove arsenic (As) via Fe(0) electrocoagulation (EC) have demonstrated consistent As removal from groundwater to concentrations below 10 \xce\xbcg L(-1). However, the coulombic performance of long-term EC field operation is lower than that of laboratory-based systems. Although EC electrodes used over prolonged periods show distinct passivation layers, which have been linked to decreased treatment efficiency, the spatial distribution and mineralogy of such surface layers have not been investigated. In this work, we combine wet chemical measurements with sub-micron-scale chemical maps and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) to determine the chemical composition and mineral phase of surface layers formed during long-term Fe(0) EC treatment. We analyzed Fe(0) EC electrodes used for 3.5 months of daily treatment of As-contaminated groundwater in rural West Bengal, India. We found that the several mm thick layer that formed on cathodes and anodes consisted of primarily magnetite, with minor fractions of goethite. Spatially-resolved SAED patterns also revealed small quantities of CaCO3, Mn oxides, and SiO2, the source of which was the groundwater electrolyte. We propose that the formation of the surface layer contributes to decreased treatment performance by preventing the migration of EC-generated Fe(II) to the bulk electrolyte, where As removal occurs. The trapped Fe(II) subsequently increases the surface layer size at the expense of treatment efficiency. Based on these findings, we discuss several simple and affordable methods to prevent the efficiency loss due to the surface layer, including alternating polarity cycles and cleaning the Fe(0) surface mechanically or via electrolyte scouring. labels: #Minerals'
b'Minerals and photosynthates are essential for many plant processes, but their imaging in live plants is difficult. We have developed a method for their live imaging in Arabidopsis using a real-time radioisotope imaging system. When each radioisotope,(22)Na,(28)Mg,(32)P-phosphate,(35)S-sulfate,(42)K,(45)Ca,(54)Mn and(137)Cs, was employed as an ion tracer, ion movement from root to shoot over 24 h was clearly observed. The movements of(22)Na,(42)K,(32)P,(35)S and(137)Cs were fast so that they spread to the tip of stems. In contrast, high accumulation of(28)Mg,(45)Ca and(54)Mn was found in the basal part of the main stem. Based on this time-course analysis, the velocity of ion movement in the main stem was calculated, and found to be fastest for S and K among the ions we tested in this study. Furthermore, application of a heat-girdling treatment allowed determination of individual ion movement via xylem flow alone, excluding phloem flow, within the main stem of 43-day-old Arabidopsis inflorescences. We also successfully developed a new system for visualizing photosynthates using labeled carbon dioxide,(14)CO2 Using this system, the switching of source/sink organs and phloem flow direction could be monitored in parts of whole shoots and over time. In roots,(14)C photosynthates accumulated intensively in the growing root tip area, 200-800 \xc2\xb5m behind the meristem. These results show that this real-time radioisotope imaging system allows visualization of many nuclides over a long time-course and thus constitutes a powerful tool for the analysis of various physiological phenomena. labels: #Minerals'
b'The incorporation of bioinorganics into synthetic biomaterials is a promising approach to improve the biological performance of bone graft substitutes, while still retaining their synthetic nature. Among these bioinorganics, strontium ions (Sr(2+) ) have reported enhanced bone formation, and a reduced risk of bone fractures. While previous results have been encouraging, more detailed studies are needed to further develop specific applications. This study demonstrates the effects of Sr(2+) on the osteogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stromal cells (hMSCs) when introduced as either a dissolved salt, or incorporated into biomimetic calcium phosphate (CaP) coatings. Upon attachment, hMSCs seeded in the presence of higher Sr(2+) concentrations presented with a more elongated shape as compared to the controls without Sr(2+) . Both Sr(2+) as a dissolved salt in the medium, or incorporated into CaP coatings, positively influenced hMSC alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in a dose-dependent manner. At the mRNA level, the expression of osteogenic markers ALP, bone sialoprotein, bone morphogenetic protein 2, osteopontin, and osteoclacin were increased in the presence of Sr(2+) , independent of the delivery method. Overall, this study demonstrates the positive effects of strontium on the osteogenic differentiation of human MSCs, and supports the use of strontium-incorporated CaPs for bone regeneration applications. \xc2\xa9 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part A: 104A: 1946-1960, 2016. labels: #Minerals'
b'In the present work, the combined application of potassium dihydrogen phosphate, quick lime and potassium chloride was used to immobilize the Pb and Zn in contaminated soils. The efficiency of the process was evaluated through leaching tests and Tessier sequential extraction procedure. The mechanism of stabilization was analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscope (SEM) to reveal the mechanism of stabilization. The results showed that the stabilizing efficiency of Pb contaminated soils was above 80% and the leaching concentrations of Pb, Zn were far below the threshold when the ratio of exogenous P and soil (mol \xc2\xb7 mol\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9) was 2:1-4: 1, the dosing ratio of CaO was 0.1%-0.5% ( mass fraction) and the dosage of potassium chloride was 0.02-0. 04 mol. Meanwhile, Pb and Zn in soil were transformed from the exchangeable fraction into residual fraction, which implied that the migration of Pb, Zn in soil could be confined by the stabilization treatment. XRD and SEM analysis revealed that Ca-P-Pb precipitation, lead orthophosphate [PbHP0\xe2\x82\x84, Pb\xe2\x82\x83 (PO\xe2\x82\x84)\xe2\x82\x82], pyromorphite (Pb-PO\xe2\x82\x84-Cl/OH) and mixed heavy metal deposits (Fe-PO\xe2\x82\x84- Ca-Pb-Zn-OH) could be formed after solidification/stabilization in which Pb and Zn could be wrapped up to form a solidified composition and to prevent leaching. labels: #Minerals'
b'The ferruginous duck (Aythya nyroca) is a medium-sized chestnut-colored diving duck that inhabits wetlands of Europe and Asia. In recent years, this species has been declining throughout much of Europe--a decline that is attributed mainly to destruction of natural habitats, and to hunting and pollution. The ferruginous duck is listed as "near threatened" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, and as a critically endangered nesting species in Israel. In 2009, a captive-breeding/reintroduction program was established in Israel, aiming to increase the species\' population. The objective of this study was to collect data on normal hematology and plasma biochemistry analytes of ferruginous ducks in order to promote the species\' conservation. Blood was collected from 49 birds, and 27 analytes were quantified. Compared to most other anseriformes studied, the ferruginous ducks in this study had lower white blood cell counts, which were dominated by heterophils rather than by lymphocytes. labels: #Minerals'
b'Klebsiella pneumoniae is a significant cause of nosocomial pneumonia and an alarming pathogen owing to the recent isolation of multidrug resistant strains. Understanding of immune responses orchestrating K. pneumoniae clearance by the host is of utmost importance. Here we show that type I interferon (IFN) signaling protects against lung infection with K. pneumoniae by launching bacterial growth-controlling interactions between alveolar macrophages and natural killer (NK) cells. Type I IFNs are important but disparate and incompletely understood regulators of defense against bacterial infections. Type I IFN receptor 1 (Ifnar1)-deficient mice infected with K. pneumoniae failed to activate NK cell-derived IFN-\xce\xb3 production. IFN-\xce\xb3 was required for bactericidal action and the production of the NK cell response-amplifying IL-12 and CXCL10 by alveolar macrophages. Bacterial clearance and NK cell IFN-\xce\xb3 were rescued in Ifnar1-deficient hosts by Ifnar1-proficient NK cells. Consistently, type I IFN signaling in myeloid cells including alveolar macrophages, monocytes and neutrophils was dispensable for host defense and IFN-\xce\xb3 activation. The failure of Ifnar1-deficient hosts to initiate a defense-promoting crosstalk between alveolar macrophages and NK cell was circumvented by administration of exogenous IFN-\xce\xb3 which restored endogenous IFN-\xce\xb3 production and restricted bacterial growth. These data identify NK cell-intrinsic type I IFN signaling as essential driver of K. pneumoniae clearance, and reveal specific targets for future therapeutic exploitations. labels: #Animals#Drug Resistance, Multiple#Interferon Type I#Killer Cells, Natural#Klebsiella Infections#Klebsiella pneumoniae#Macrophages, Alveolar#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Receptor Cross-Talk#Respiratory Tract Infections#Signal Transduction'
b"BACKGROUND: The Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (D:A:D) study has developed predictive risk scores for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD, defined as confirmed estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] \xe2\x89\xa4 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) events in HIV-positive people. We hypothesized that participants in D:A:D at high (>5%) predicted risk for both CVD and CKD would be at even greater risk for CVD and CKD events.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We included all participants with complete risk factor (covariate) data, baseline eGFR>60 ml/min/1.73 m2, and a confirmed (>3 months apart) eGFR<60 ml/min/1.73 m2 thereafter to calculate CVD and CKD risk scores. We calculated CVD and CKD event rates by predicted 5-year CVD and CKD risk groups (\xe2\x89\xa41%,>1%-5%,>5%) and fitted Poisson models to assess whether CVD and CKD risk group effects were multiplicative. A total of 27,215 participants contributed 202,034 person-years of follow-up: 74% male, median (IQR) age 42 (36, 49) years, median (IQR) baseline year of follow-up 2005 (2004, 2008). D:A:D risk equations predicted 3,560 (13.1%) participants at high CVD risk, 4,996 (18.4%) participants at high CKD risk, and 1,585 (5.8%) participants at both high CKD and high CVD risk. CVD and CKD event rates by predicted risk group were multiplicative. Participants at high CVD risk had a 5.63-fold (95% CI 4.47, 7.09, p<0.001) increase in CKD events compared to those at low risk; participants at high CKD risk had a 1.31-fold (95% CI 1.09, 1.56, p = 0.005) increase in CVD events compared to those at low risk. Participants' CVD and CKD risk groups had multiplicative predictive effects, with no evidence of an interaction (p = 0.329 and p = 0.291 for CKD and CVD, respectively). The main study limitation is the difference in the ascertainment of the clinically defined CVD endpoints and the laboratory-defined CKD endpoints.CONCLUSIONS: We found that people at high predicted risk for both CVD and CKD have substantially greater risks for both CVD and CKD events compared with those at low predicted risk for both outcomes, and compared to those at high predicted risk for only CVD or CKD events. This suggests that CVD and CKD risk in HIV-positive persons should be assessed together. The results further encourage clinicians to prioritise addressing modifiable risks for CVD and CKD in HIV-positive people. labels: #Adult#Cardiovascular Diseases#Female#Glomerular Filtration Rate#HIV Seropositivity#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Prospective Studies#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Risk Factors"
b'BACKGROUND: It is unknown if extremely early initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) may lead to long-term ART-free HIV remission or cure. As a result, we studied 2 individuals recruited from a pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) program who started prophylactic ART an estimated 10 days (Participant A; 54-year-old male) and 12 days (Participant B; 31-year-old male) after infection with peak plasma HIV RNA of 220 copies/mL and 3,343 copies/mL, respectively. Extensive testing of blood and tissue for HIV persistence was performed, and PrEP Participant A underwent analytical treatment interruption (ATI) following 32 weeks of continuous ART.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Colorectal and lymph node tissues, bone marrow, cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), plasma, and very large numbers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained longitudinally from both participants and were studied for HIV persistence in several laboratories using molecular and culture-based detection methods, including a murine viral outgrowth assay (mVOA). Both participants initiated PrEP with tenofovir/emtricitabine during very early Fiebig stage I (detectable plasma HIV-1 RNA, antibody negative) followed by 4-drug ART intensification. Following peak viral loads, both participants experienced full suppression of HIV-1 plasma viremia. Over the following 2 years, no further HIV could be detected in blood or tissue from PrEP Participant A despite extensive sampling from ileum, rectum, lymph nodes, bone marrow, CSF, circulating CD4+ T cell subsets, and plasma. No HIV was detected from tissues obtained from PrEP Participant B, but low-level HIV RNA or DNA was intermittently detected from various CD4+ T cell subsets. Over 500 million CD4+ T cells were assayed from both participants in a humanized mouse outgrowth assay. Three of 8 mice infused with CD4+ T cells from PrEP Participant B developed viremia (50 million input cells/surviving mouse), but only 1 of 10 mice infused with CD4+ T cells from PrEP Participant A (53 million input cells/mouse) experienced very low level viremia (201 copies/mL); sequence confirmation was unsuccessful. PrEP Participant A stopped ART and remained aviremic for 7.4 months, rebounding with HIV RNA of 36 copies/mL that rose to 59,805 copies/mL 6 days later. ART was restarted promptly. Rebound plasma HIV sequences were identical to those obtained during acute infection by single-genome sequencing. Mathematical modeling predicted that the latent reservoir size was approximately 200 cells prior to ATI and that only around 1% of individuals with a similar HIV burden may achieve lifelong ART-free remission. Furthermore, we observed that lymphocytes expressing the tumor marker CD30 increased in frequency weeks to months prior to detectable HIV-1 RNA in plasma. This study was limited by the small sample size, which was a result of the rarity of individuals presenting during hyperacute infection.CONCLUSIONS: We report HIV relapse despite initiation of ART at one of the earliest stages of acute HIV infection possible. Near complete or complete loss of detectable HIV in blood and tissues did not lead to indefinite ART-free HIV remission. However, the small numbers of latently infected cells in individuals treated during hyperacute infection may be associated with prolonged ART-free remission. labels: #Adult#Anti-Retroviral Agents#Biomarkers#Flow Cytometry#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Prospective Studies#Recurrence#Secondary Prevention#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Gaps in the HIV care continuum contribute to poor health outcomes and increase HIV transmission. A combination of interventions targeting multiple steps in the continuum is needed to achieve the full beneficial impact of HIV treatment.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Link4Health, a cluster-randomized controlled trial, evaluated the effectiveness of a combination intervention strategy (CIS) versus the standard of care (SOC) on the primary outcome of linkage to care within 1 month plus retention in care at 12 months after HIV-positive testing. Ten clusters of HIV clinics in Swaziland were randomized 1:1 to CIS versus SOC. The CIS included point-of-care CD4+ testing at the time of an HIV-positive test, accelerated antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation for treatment-eligible participants, mobile phone appointment reminders, health educational packages, and noncash financial incentives. Secondary outcomes included each component of the primary outcome, mean time to linkage, assessment for ART eligibility, ART initiation and time to ART initiation, viral suppression defined as HIV-1 RNA<1,000 copies/mL at 12 months after HIV testing among patients on ART \xe2\x89\xa56 months, and loss to follow-up and death at 12 months after HIV testing. A total of 2,197 adults aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years, newly tested HIV positive, were enrolled from 19 August 2013 to 21 November 2014 (1,096 CIS arm; 1,101 SOC arm) and followed for 12 months. The median participant age was 31 years (IQR 26-39), and 59% were women. In an intention-to-treat analysis, 64% (705/1,096) of participants at the CIS sites achieved the primary outcome versus 43% (477/1,101) at the SOC sites (adjusted relative risk [RR] 1.52, 95% CI 1.19-1.96, p = 0.002). Participants in the CIS arm versus the SOC arm had the following secondary outcomes: linkage to care regardless of retention at 12 months (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.97-1.21, p = 0.13), mean time to linkage (2.5 days versus 7.5 days, p = 0.189), retention in care at 12 months regardless of time to linkage (RR 1.48, 95% CI 1.18-1.86, p = 0.002), assessment for ART eligibility (RR 1.20, 95% CI 1.07-1.34, p = 0.004), ART initiation (RR 1.16, 95% CI 0.96-1.40, p = 0.12), mean time to ART initiation from time of HIV testing (7 days versus 14 days, p<0.001), viral suppression among those on ART for \xe2\x89\xa56 months (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.88-1.07, p = 0.55), loss to follow-up at 12 months after HIV testing (RR 0.56, 95% CI 0.40-0.79, p = 0.002), and death (N = 78) within 12 months of HIV testing (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.46-1.35, p = 0.41). Limitations of this study include a small number of clusters and the inability to evaluate the incremental effectiveness of individual components of the combination strategy.CONCLUSIONS: A combination strategy inclusive of 5 evidence-based interventions aimed at multiple steps in the HIV care continuum was associated with significant increase in linkage to care plus 12-month retention. This strategy offers promise of enhanced outcomes for HIV-positive patients.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01904994. labels: #Adult#CD4 Lymphocyte Count#Clinical Protocols#Cluster Analysis#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Male#Medication Adherence#Patient Compliance#Program Evaluation#Swaziland'
b'Reassortment, which is the exchange of genome sequence between viruses co-infecting a host cell, plays an important role in the evolution of segmented viruses. In the human influenza virus, reassortment happens most frequently between co-existing variants within the same lineage. This process breaks genetic linkage and fitness correlations between viral genome segments, but the resulting net effect on viral fitness has remained unclear. In this paper, we determine rate and average selective effect of reassortment processes in the human influenza lineage A/H3N2. For the surface proteins hemagglutinin and neuraminidase, reassortant variants with a mean distance of at least 3 nucleotides to their parent strains get established at a rate of about 10-2 in units of the neutral point mutation rate. Our inference is based on a new method to map reassortment events from joint genealogies of multiple genome segments, which is tested by extensive simulations. We show that intra-lineage reassortment processes are, on average, under substantial negative selection that increases in strength with increasing sequence distance between the parent strains. The deleterious effects of reassortment manifest themselves in two ways: there are fewer reassortment events than expected from a null model of neutral reassortment, and reassortant strains have fewer descendants than their non-reassortant counterparts. Our results suggest that influenza evolves under ubiquitous epistasis across proteins, which produces fitness barriers against reassortment even between co-circulating strains within one lineage. labels: #Evolution, Molecular#Genome, Viral#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H3N2 Subtype#Influenza, Human#Reassortant Viruses'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To investigate whether symptomatic treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is non-inferior to antibiotics in the treatment of uncomplicated lower urinary tract infection (UTI) in women, thus offering an opportunity to reduce antibiotic use in ambulatory care.Design\xc2\xa0Randomised, double blind, non-inferiority trial.Setting\xc2\xa017 general practices in Switzerland.Participants\xc2\xa0253 women with uncomplicated lower UTI were randomly assigned 1:1 to symptomatic treatment with the NSAID diclofenac (n=133) or antibiotic treatment with norfloxacin (n=120). The randomisation sequence was computer generated, stratified by practice, blocked, and concealed using sealed, sequentially numbered drug containers.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcome was resolution of symptoms at day 3 (72 hours after randomisation and 12 hours after intake of the last study drug). The prespecified principal secondary outcome was the use of any antibiotic (including norfloxacin and fosfomycin as trial drugs) up to day 30. Analysis was by intention to treat.Results\xc2\xa072/133 (54%) women assigned to diclofenac and 96/120 (80%) assigned to norfloxacin experienced symptom resolution at day 3 (risk difference 27%, 95% confidence interval 15% to 38%, P=0.98 for non-inferiority, P<0.001 for superiority). The median time until resolution of symptoms was four days in the diclofenac group and two days in the norfloxacin group. A total of 82 (62%) women in the diclofenac group and 118 (98%) in the norfloxacin group used antibiotics up to day 30 (risk difference 37%, 28% to 46%, P<0.001 for superiority). Six women in the diclofenac group (5%) but none in the norfloxacin group received a clinical diagnosis of pyelonephritis (P=0.03).Conclusion\xc2\xa0Diclofenac is inferior to norfloxacin for symptom relief of UTI and is likely to be associated with an increased risk of pyelonephritis, even though it reduces antibiotic use in women with uncomplicated lower UTI.Trial registration\xc2\xa0ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01039545. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Ambulatory Care#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal#Double-Blind Method#Female#General Practice#Humans#Middle Aged#Norfloxacin#Switzerland#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To evaluate how selection of patients for high sensitivity cardiac troponin testing affects the diagnosis of myocardial infarction across different healthcare settings.Design\xc2\xa0Prospective study of three independent consecutive patient populations presenting to emergency departments.Setting\xc2\xa0Secondary and tertiary care hospitals in the United Kingdom and United States.Participants\xc2\xa0High sensitivity cardiac troponin I concentrations were measured in 8500 consecutive patients presenting to emergency departments: unselected patients in the UK (n=1054) and two selected populations of patients in whom troponin testing was requested by the attending clinician in the UK (n=5815) and the US (n=1631). The final diagnosis of type 1 or type 2 myocardial infarction or myocardial injury was independently adjudicated.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0Positive predictive value of an elevated cardiac troponin concentration for a diagnosis of type 1 myocardial infarction.Results\xc2\xa0Cardiac troponin concentrations were elevated in 13.7% (144/1054) of unselected patients, with a prevalence of 1.6% (17/1054) for type 1 myocardial infarction and a positive predictive value of 11.8% (95% confidence interval 7.0% to 18.2%). In selected patients, in whom troponin testing was guided by the attending clinician, the prevalence and positive predictive value were 14.5% (843/5815) and 59.7% (57.0% to 62.2%) in the UK and 4.2% (68/1631) and 16.4% (13.0% to 20.3%) in the US. Across both selected patient populations, the positive predictive value was highest in patients with chest pain, with ischaemia on the electrocardiogram, and with a history of ischaemic heart disease.Conclusions\xc2\xa0When high sensitivity cardiac troponin testing is performed widely or without previous clinical assessment, elevated troponin concentrations are common and predominantly reflect myocardial injury rather than myocardial infarction. These observations highlight how selection of patients for cardiac troponin testing varies across healthcare settings and markedly influences the positive predictive value for a diagnosis of myocardial infarction. labels: #Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Patient Selection#Predictive Value of Tests#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Troponin I#United Kingdom#United States'
b'Purpose: To evaluate macular and peripapillary vessel perfusion density (VD) in glaucoma suspects (GS) and glaucoma patients; to correlate ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses with macular and peripapillary VD; and to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the structural and vascular parameters.Methods: A consecutive series of GS, glaucoma patients, and healthy subjects was prospectively recruited from July 1, 2016, to January 31, 2017. All subjects underwent standard automated perimetry, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT), and 6 \xc3\x97 6-mm optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) centered on the fovea and optic nerve.Results: Forty controls, 40 GS, and 40 glaucoma patients were enrolled. Peripapillary RNFL, GCIPL, and macular RNFL thicknesses significantly decreased in the glaucoma group compared to controls and GS (P<0.01). Peripapillary VD in average and in the superior and inferior quadrants decreased in the glaucoma group (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001); conversely, macular VD was not statistically different across groups (P>0.05). At the peripapillary area, a correlation between RNFL thickness and VD was found; conversely, no statistically significant correlation was found between GCIPL thicknesses and macular VD (all P>0.05) in all groups. Peripapillary RNFL and GCIPL showed higher diagnostic capacity compared to peripapillary and macular VDs.Conclusions: Structural damage is evident both in the peripapillary and in macular areas. Vascular damage seems to be less prominent, as it was seen only for the glaucoma group and at the radial peripapillary plexus. Diagnostic abilities are excellent for structural variables, less so but still good for peripapillary VD, and poor for macular VD. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Macula Lutea#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Perfusion Imaging#Prospective Studies#Regional Blood Flow#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Field Tests'
b'Purpose: To analyze the presence of complex alleles of the ABCA4 gene in Brazilian patients with Stargardt disease and to assess the correlation with clinical features.Methods: This was an observational cross-sectional study. Patients with a diagnosis of Stargardt disease who presented three pathogenic variants of the ABCA4 gene or who had variants previously described as complex alleles were included. The relatives of these probands were evaluated in the segregation analysis. The patients were evaluated based on age at symptom onset and visual acuity, and the clinical characteristics were classified according to the findings observed on autofluorescence examination.Results: Among the 47 families analyzed, approximately 30% (14/47) presented complex alleles. The segregation analysis in 14 families with cases of Stargardt disease identified three novel complex alleles and one previously described complex allele. The known complex allele p.[Leu541Pro; Ala1038Val] was identified in two families. The novel complex alleles identified were p.[Leu541Pro; Arg1443His]in five families, p.[Ser1642Arg; Val1682_Val1686del] in seven families, and p.[Pro1761Arg; Arg2106Cys]in one family. Furthermore, four new variants (p.Lys22Asn, p.Asp915Asn, p.Glu1447Val, and p.Pro1761Arg) were identified in the second allele of the ABCA4 gene.Conclusions: Segregation analysis is important in order to confirm the molecular diagnosis of patients with Stargardt disease, given the frequency of complex alleles in the ABCA4 gene. The various pathogenic variation combinations observed in this study were associated with different phenotypes. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Alleles#Brazil#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#DNA Mutational Analysis#Electroretinography#Female#Genetic Association Studies#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Pedigree#Retina#Visual Acuity#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the contribution of fixational saccades toward fixation instability in strabismic monkeys.Methods: Binocular eye movements were measured as six experimental monkeys (five strabismic monkeys and one monkey with downbeat nystagmus) and one normal monkey fixated targets of two shapes (Optotype, Disk) and two sizes (0.5\xc2\xb0, 2\xc2\xb0) during monocular and binocular viewing. Fixational saccades were detected using an unsupervised clustering algorithm.Results: When compared with the normal monkey, amplitude and frequency of fixational saccades in both the viewing and nonviewing eye were greater in 3 of 5 strabismic monkeys (1-way ANOVA on ranks P<0.001; median amplitude in the normal monkey viewing eye: 0.33\xc2\xb0; experimental animals: median amplitude range 0.20-0.82\xc2\xb0; median frequency in the normal monkey: 1.35/s; experimental animals: median frequency range 1.3-3.7/s). Increase in frequency of fixational saccades was largely due to quick phases of ongoing nystagmus. Fixational saccade amplitude was increased significantly (3-way ANOVA; P<0.001) but by small magnitude depending on target shape and size (mean difference between disk and optotype targets = 0.02\xc2\xb0; mean difference between 2\xc2\xb0 and 0.5\xc2\xb0 targets = 0.1\xc2\xb0). Relationship between saccade amplitude and the Bivariate Contour Ellipse Area (BCEA) was nonlinear, showing saturation of saccade amplitude. Fixation instability in depth was significantly greater in strabismic monkeys (vergence BCEA: 0.63 deg2-2.15 deg2) compared with the normal animal (vergence BCEA: 0.15 deg2; P<0.001).Conclusions: Increased fixational instability in strabismic monkeys is only partially due to increased amplitude and more frequent fixational saccades. Target parameter effects on fixational saccades are similar to previous findings of target effects on BCEA. labels: #Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Fixation, Ocular#Macaca mulatta#Nystagmus, Pathologic#Saccades#Strabismus#Vision, Binocular'
b'Purpose: To establish a model of the retinal capillary circulation in pigs, which in many aspects is close to the human retina.Methods: Using high density confocal microscopy image stacks of immunolabeled porcine retinal whole mounts, microvessels close to the optic nerve head were traced in three dimensions. The direction of flow of individual capillaries was deduced from their arteriolar and/or venous connections.Results: From major arteries, second-order arteries traversed the nerve fiber layer and resolved exclusively into the superficial vascular plexus (SVP), which dichotomized the blood flow between radial peripapillary capillaries (RPCs) on one side and the intermediate (IVP) and deep vascular plexus (DVP) on the other. Each RPC was supplied by one or several capillaries from the SVP and drained to the IVP or DVP. The DVP was a mosaic of approximately 300 to 600 \xce\xbcm wide anastomotic watersheds, each drained by one or two venules connected to major veins. A presumptive direction of flow could be determined for>90% of capillaries. These results suggest a model of the capillary circulation in which the three microvessel layers are serially organized with RPCs are in parallel between the SVP and IVP or DVP.Conclusions: In the peripapillary retina of pigs, microvascular layers have a serial arrangement, with RPCs emerging from the SVP and draining to the IVP or DVP; hence, connected in parallel of this scheme. The bulk of flow, therefore, traverses the SVP and DVP successively. This organization contributes to the higher oxygen saturation in the SVP and RPCs than in the DVP. Physiopathologic implications of this model regarding retinal diseases are discussed. labels: #Animals#Capillaries#Fluorescein Angiography#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Microcirculation#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Biological#Optic Disk#Regional Blood Flow#Retinal Artery#Retinal Vein#Sus scrofa#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: Cromakalim prodrug 1 (CKLP1) is a water-soluble ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener that has shown ocular hypotensive properties in ex vivo and in vivo experimental models. To determine its mechanism of action, we assessed the effect of CKLP1 on aqueous humor dynamics and in combination therapy with existing ocular hypotensive agents.Methods: Outflow facility was assessed in C57BL/6 mice by ex vivo eye perfusions and by in vivo constant flow infusion following CKLP1 treatment. Human anterior segments with no trabecular meshwork were evaluated for effect on pressure following CKLP1 treatment. CKLP1 alone and in combination with latanoprost, timolol, and Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632 were evaluated for effect on intraocular pressure in C57BL/6 mice and Dutch-belted pigmented rabbits.Results: CKLP1 lowered episcleral venous pressure (control: 8.9 \xc2\xb1 0.1 mm Hg versus treated: 6.2 \xc2\xb1 0.1 mm Hg, P<0.0001) but had no detectable effect on outflow facility, aqueous humor flow rate, or uveoscleral outflow. Treatment with CKLP1 in human anterior segments without the trabecular meshwork resulted in a 50% \xc2\xb1 9% decrease in pressure, suggesting an effect on the distal portion of the conventional outflow pathway. CKLP1 worked additively with latanoprost, timolol, and Y27632 to lower IOP, presumably owing to combined effects on different aspects of aqueous humor dynamics.Conclusions: CKLP1 lowered intraocular pressure by reducing episcleral venous pressure and lowering distal outflow resistance in the conventional outflow pathway. Owing to this unique mechanism of action, CKLP1 works in an additive manner to lower intraocular pressure with latanoprost, timolol, and Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632. labels: #Amides#Animals#Anterior Eye Segment#Antihypertensive Agents#Aqueous Humor#Cromakalim#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Middle Aged#Ophthalmic Solutions#Prodrugs#Prostaglandins F, Synthetic#Pyridines#Rabbits#Sclera#Timolol#Tonometry, Ocular#Venous Pressure'
b'INTRODUCTION: Transection of the rectum at the anorectal junction is required for proper resection in ulcerative colitis and restorative proctocolectomy. Achieving stapled transection at the pelvic floor is often challenging, particularly during laparoscopic proctectomy. Transanal mucosectomy and handsewn anastomosis are frequently used to achieve adequate resection. Rectal eversion provides an alternative for low anorectal transection and maintains the ability to perform stapled anastomosis.TECHNIQUE: The purpose of this article is to describe a technique for low anorectal transection. The work was conducted at tertiary care center by 2 colon and rectal surgeons on patients undergoing total proctocolectomy with creation of ileal pouch rectal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis. We measured the ability to achieve low stapled anastomosis.RESULTS: Very low transection was achieved, allowing for creation of IPAA without leaving significant rectal cuff. This study was limited because it is an early experience that was not performed in the setting of a scientific investigation. No sphincter or bowel functional data were obtained or evaluated.CONCLUSIONS: Rectal eversion technique provides an alternative to mucosectomy when low pelvic transection is difficult to achieve. See Video at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A441. labels: #Adult#Anastomosis, Surgical#Colitis, Ulcerative#Colonic Pouches#Humans#Ileostomy#Laparoscopy#Male#Proctocolectomy, Restorative#Rectum#Surgical Stapling'
b'The aim of this study is to evaluate the application and accuracy of polymer gels for determining electron dose distributions in the presence of small heterogeneities made of bone and air. Different cylindrical phantoms containing MAGIC (Methacrylic and Ascorbic acid in Gelatin Initiated by Copper) normoxic polymer gel were used under the slab phantoms during irradiation. MR images of the irradiated gel phantoms were obtained to determine their R2 (spin-spin) relaxation maps for conversion to absorbed dose. One- and 2-dimensional lateral dose profiles were acquired at depths of 1 and 4 cm for 8 and 15 MeV electron beams. The results were compared with the doses measured by a diode detector at the same positions. In addition, the dose distribution in the axial orientation was measured by the gel dosimeter. The slope and intercept for the R2 versus dose curve were 0.509 \xc2\xb1 0.002 Gy s and 4.581 \xc2\xb1 0.005 s, respectively. No significant variation in dose-R2 response was seen for the two electron energies within the applied dose ranges. The mean dose difference between the measured gel dose profiles was smaller than 3% compared to those measured by the diode detector. These results provide further demonstration that electron dose distributions are significantly altered in the presence of tissue inhomogeneities such as bone and air cavity and that MAGIC gel is a useful tool for 3-dimensional dose visualization and qualitative assessment of tissue inhomogeneity effects in electron beam dosimetry. labels: #Anisotropy#Electrons#Equipment Design#Equipment Failure Analysis#Gels#Polymers#Radiation Dosage#Radiometry#Reproducibility of Results#Scattering, Radiation#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'The pharmacokinetic equations of Pierson et al. describing the behavior of bromide in rat provide a general approach to the modeling of extracellular fluid (ECF). The movement of material into ECF spaces is rapid and is completely characterized by tissue volumes and vascular flow rates to and from a tissue, the volumes of the tissue, and the ECF associated with the tissue. Early-time measurements are needed to characterize ECF. Measurements of DTPA disappearance from plasma by Wedeking et al. are discussed as an example of such measurements. In any biokinetic model, the fastest transfer rates are not determinable with the usual datasets, and if determined empirically, these rates will have very large and highly correlated uncertainties, so particular values of these rates, even though the model fits the available data, are not significant. A pharmacokinetic front-end provides values for these fast rates. An example of such a front-end for a 200-g rat is given. labels: #Animals#Blood Flow Velocity#Computer Simulation#Extracellular Fluid#Kinetics#Metabolic Clearance Rate#Models, Biological#Organ Size#Radiopharmaceuticals#Rats#Tissue Distribution'
b"INTRODUCTION: Sub-Saharan Africa bears more than two-thirds of the worldwide burden of HIV; however, data among transgender women from the region are sparse. Transgender women across the world face significant vulnerability to HIV. This analysis aimed to assess HIV prevalence as well as psychosocial and behavioral drivers of HIV infection among transgender women compared with cisgender (non-transgender) men who have sex with men (cis-MSM) in 8 sub-Saharan African countries.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Respondent-driven sampling targeted cis-MSM for enrollment. Data collection took place at 14 sites across 8 countries: Burkina Faso (January-August 2013), C\xc3\xb4te d'Ivoire (March 2015-February 2016), The Gambia (July-December 2011), Lesotho (February-September 2014), Malawi (July 2011-March 2012), Senegal (February-November 2015), Swaziland (August-December 2011), and Togo (January-June 2013). Surveys gathered information on sexual orientation, gender identity, stigma, mental health, sexual behavior, and HIV testing. Rapid tests for HIV were conducted. Data were merged, and mixed effects logistic regression models were used to estimate relationships between gender identity and HIV infection. Among 4,586 participants assigned male sex at birth, 937 (20%) identified as transgender or female, and 3,649 were cis-MSM. The mean age of study participants was approximately 24 years, with no difference between transgender participants and cis-MSM. Compared to cis-MSM participants, transgender women were more likely to experience family exclusion (odds ratio [OR]1.75, 95% CI 1.42-2.16, p<0.001), rape (OR 1.95, 95% CI 1.63-2.36, p<0.001), and depressive symptoms (OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.12-1.52, p<0.001). Transgender women were more likely to report condomless receptive anal sex in the prior 12 months (OR 2.44, 95% CI 2.05-2.90, p<0.001) and to be currently living with HIV (OR 1.81, 95% CI 1.49-2.19, p<0.001). Overall HIV prevalence was 25% (235/926) in transgender women and 14% (505/3,594) in cis-MSM. When adjusted for age, condomless receptive anal sex, depression, interpersonal stigma, law enforcement stigma, and violence, and the interaction of gender with condomless receptive anal sex, the odds of HIV infection for transgender women were 2.2 times greater than the odds for cis-MSM (95% CI 1.65-2.87, p<0.001). Limitations of the study included sampling strategies tailored for cis-MSM and merging of datasets with non-identical survey instruments.CONCLUSIONS: In this study in sub-Saharan Africa, we found that HIV burden and stigma differed between transgender women and cis-MSM, indicating a need to address gender diversity within HIV research and programs. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Africa South of the Sahara#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#HIV Infections#Health Surveys#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sexual Behavior#Social Stigma#Transgender Persons"
b'In a Perspective, Wafaa El-Sadr and colleagues discuss tailored approaches to treatment and prevention of HIV infection. labels: #Anti-Retroviral Agents#Communicable Disease Control#Developing Countries#Female#Global Health#Goals#HIV Infections#Humans#Male'
b'BACKGROUND: Retention in care is an essential component of meeting the UNAIDS "90-90-90" HIV treatment targets. In Khayelitsha township (population ~500,000) in Cape Town, South Africa, more than 50,000 patients have received antiretroviral therapy (ART) since the inception of this public-sector program in 2001. Disengagement from care remains an important challenge. We sought to determine the incidence of and risk factors associated with disengagement from care during 2013-2014 and outcomes for those who disengaged.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of all patients \xe2\x89\xa510 years of age who visited 1 of the 13 Khayelitsha ART clinics from 2013-2014 regardless of the date they initiated ART. We described the cumulative incidence of first disengagement (>180 days not attending clinic) between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2014 using competing risks methods, enabling us to estimate disengagement incidence up to 10 years after ART initiation. We also described risk factors for disengagement based on a Cox proportional hazards model, using multiple imputation for missing data. We ascertained outcomes (death, return to care, hospital admission, other hospital contact, alive but not in care, no information) after disengagement until 30 June 2015 using province-wide health databases and the National Death Registry. Of 39,884 patients meeting our eligibility criteria, the median time on ART to 31 December 2014 was 33.6 months (IQR 12.4-63.2). Of the total study cohort, 592 (1.5%) died in the study period, 1,231 (3.1%) formally transferred out, 987 (2.5%) were silent transfers and visited another Western Cape province clinic within 180 days, 9,005 (22.6%) disengaged, and 28,069 (70.4%) remained in care. Cumulative incidence of disengagement from care was estimated to be 25.1% by 2 years and 50.3% by 5 years on ART. Key factors associated with disengagement (age, male sex, pregnancy at ART start [HR 1.58, 95% CI 1.47-1.69], most recent CD4 count) and retention (ART club membership, baseline CD4) after adjustment were similar to those found in previous studies; however, notably, the higher hazard of disengagement soon after starting ART was no longer present after adjusting for these risk factors. Of the 9,005 who disengaged, the 2 most common initial outcomes were return to ART care after 180 days (33%; n = 2,976) and being alive but not in care in the Western Cape (25%; n = 2,255). After disengagement, a total of 1,459 (16%) patients were hospitalized and 237 (3%) died. The median follow-up from date of disengagement to 30 June 2015 was 16.7 months (IQR 11-22.4). As we included only patient follow-up from 2013-2014 by design in order to maximize the generalizability of our findings to current programs, this limited our ability to more fully describe temporal trends in first disengagement.CONCLUSIONS: Twenty-three percent of ART patients in the large cohort of Khayelitsha, one of the oldest public-sector ART programs in South Africa, disengaged from care at least once in a contemporary 2-year period. Fifty-eight percent of these patients either subsequently returned to care (some "silently") or remained alive without hospitalization, suggesting that many who are considered "lost" actually return to care, and that misclassification of "lost" patients is likely common in similar urban populations. A challenge to meeting ART retention targets is developing, testing, and implementing program designs to target mobile populations and retain them in lifelong care. This should be guided by risk factors for disengagement and improving interlinkage of routine information systems to better support patient care across complex care platforms. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Anti-Retroviral Agents#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Incidence#Male#Medication Adherence#Patient Acceptance of Health Care#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#South Africa'
b'BACKGROUND: Illness-related costs for patients with tuberculosis (TB) \xe2\x89\xa520% of pre-illness annual household income predict adverse treatment outcomes and have been termed "catastrophic." Social protection initiatives, including cash transfers, are endorsed to help prevent catastrophic costs. With this aim, cash transfers may either be provided to defray TB-related costs of households with a confirmed TB diagnosis (termed a "TB-specific" approach); or to increase income of households with high TB risk to strengthen their economic resilience (termed a "TB-sensitive" approach). The impact of cash transfers provided with each of these approaches might vary. We undertook an economic modelling study from the patient perspective to compare the potential of these 2 cash transfer approaches to prevent catastrophic costs.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Model inputs for 7 low- and middle-income countries (Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Ghana, Mexico, Tanzania, and Yemen) were retrieved by literature review and included countries\' mean patient TB-related costs, mean household income, mean cash transfers, and estimated TB-specific and TB-sensitive target populations. Analyses were completed for drug-susceptible (DS) TB-related costs in all 7 out of 7 countries, and additionally for drug-resistant (DR) TB-related costs in 1 of the 7 countries with available data. All cost data were reported in 2013 international dollars ($). The target population for TB-specific cash transfers was poor households with a confirmed TB diagnosis, and for TB-sensitive cash transfers was poor households already targeted by countries\' established poverty-reduction cash transfer programme. Cash transfers offered in countries, unrelated to TB, ranged from $217 to $1,091/year/household. Before cash transfers, DS TB-related costs were catastrophic in 6 out of 7 countries. If cash transfers were provided with a TB-specific approach, alone they would be insufficient to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs in 4 out of 6 countries, and when increased enough to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs would require a budget between $3.8 million (95% CI: $3.8 million-$3.8 million) and $75 million (95% CI: $50 million-$100 million) per country. If instead cash transfers were provided with a TB-sensitive approach, alone they would be insufficient to prevent DS TB-related catastrophic costs in any of the 6 countries, and when increased enough to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs would require a budget between $298 million (95% CI: $219 million-$378 million) and $165,367 million (95% CI: $134,085 million-$196,425 million) per country. DR TB-related costs were catastrophic before and after TB-specific or TB-sensitive cash transfers in 1 out of 1 countries. Sensitivity analyses showed our findings to be robust to imputation of missing TB-related cost components, and use of 10% or 30% instead of 20% as the threshold for measuring catastrophic costs. Key limitations were using national average data and not considering other health and social benefits of cash transfers.CONCLUSIONS: A TB-sensitive cash transfer approach to increase all poor households\' income may have broad benefits by reducing poverty, but is unlikely to be as effective or affordable for preventing TB catastrophic costs as a TB-specific cash transfer approach to defray TB-related costs only in poor households with a confirmed TB diagnosis. Preventing DR TB-related catastrophic costs will require considerable additional investment whether a TB-sensitive or a TB-specific cash transfer approach is used. labels: #Antitubercular Agents#Developing Countries#Health Care Costs#Humans#Income#Models, Economic#Poverty Areas#Socioeconomic Factors#Tuberculosis#Vulnerable Populations'
b'Driven by oncogenic signaling, glutamine addiction exhibited by cancer cells often leads to severe glutamine depletion in solid tumors. Despite this nutritional environment that tumor cells often experience, the effect of glutamine deficiency on cellular responses to DNA damage and chemotherapeutic treatment remains unclear. Here, we show that glutamine deficiency, through the reduction of alpha-ketoglutarate, inhibits the AlkB homolog (ALKBH) enzymes activity and induces DNA alkylation damage. As a result, glutamine deprivation or glutaminase inhibitor treatment triggers DNA damage accumulation independent of cell death. In addition, low glutamine-induced DNA damage is abolished in ALKBH deficient cells. Importantly, we show that glutaminase inhibitors, 6-Diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine (DON) or CB-839, hypersensitize cancer cells to alkylating agents both in vitro and in vivo. Together, the crosstalk between glutamine metabolism and the DNA repair pathway identified in this study highlights a potential role of metabolic stress in genomic instability and therapeutic response in cancer. labels: #AlkB Enzymes#AlkB Homolog 3, Alpha-Ketoglutarate-Dependent Dioxygenase#Alkylation#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#DNA Damage#Enzyme Inhibitors#Glutaminase#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Nude#Neoplasm Proteins#Neoplasms#RNA Interference#Random Allocation#Tumor Burden#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Objectives\xc2\xa0To revise an existing three-talk model for learning how to achieve shared decision making, and to consult with relevant stakeholders to update and obtain wider engagement.Design\xc2\xa0Multistage consultation process.Setting\xc2\xa0Key informant group, communities of interest, and survey of clinical specialties.Participants\xc2\xa019 key informants, 153 member responses from multiple communities of interest, and 316 responses to an online survey from medically qualified clinicians from six specialties.Results\xc2\xa0After extended consultation over three iterations, we revised the three-talk model by making changes to one talk category, adding the need to elicit patient goals, providing a clear set of tasks for each talk category, and adding suggested scripts to illustrate each step. A new three-talk model of shared decision making is proposed, based on "team talk," "option talk," and "decision talk," to depict a process of collaboration and deliberation. Team talk places emphasis on the need to provide support to patients when they are made aware of choices, and to elicit their goals as a means of guiding decision making processes. Option talk refers to the task of comparing alternatives, using risk communication principles. Decision talk refers to the task of arriving at decisions that reflect the informed preferences of patients, guided by the experience and expertise of health professionals.Conclusions\xc2\xa0The revised three-talk model of shared decision making depicts conversational steps, initiated by providing support when introducing options, followed by strategies to compare and discuss trade-offs, before deliberation based on informed preferences. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Communication#Decision Making#Humans#Models, Theoretical#Physician-Patient Relations#Referral and Consultation'
b'Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare type of cancer which is an increasingly discernible health threat. The disease is usually very difficult in diagnosis and various treatment modalities are typically not effective. Cholangiocarcinoma is a complex and very heterogeneous malignancy characterized by tumor location, different risk factors, molecular profiling, and prognosis. Cancer cell lines represent an important tool for investigation in various aspects of tumor biology and molecular therapeutics. We established two cell lines, KKU-452 and KKU-023, which were derived from patients residing in the endemic area of liver fluke infection in Thailand. Both of tumor tissues have gross pathology of perihilar and intrahepatic mass-forming cholangiocarcinoma. Two cell lines were characterized for their biological, molecular and genetic properties. KKU-452 and KKU-023 cells are both adherent cells with epithelium morphology, but have some differences in their growth pattern (a doubling time of 17.9 vs 34.8 h, respectively) and the expression of epithelial bile duct markers, CK7 and CK19. Cytogenetic analysis of KKU-452 and KKU-023 cells revealed their highly complex karyotypes; hypertriploid and hypotetraploid, respectively, with multiple chromosomal aberrations. Both cell lines showed mutations in p53 but not in KRAS. KKU-452 showed a very rapid migration and invasion properties in concert with low expression of E-cadherin and high expression of N-cadherin, whereas KKU-023 showed opposite characters. KKU-023, but not KKU-452, showed in vivo tumorigenicity in xenografted nude mice. Those two established cholangiocarcinoma cell lines with unique characters may be valuable for better understanding the process of carcinogenesis and developing new therapeutics for the patients. labels: #Animals#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Separation#Cholangiocarcinoma#Endemic Diseases#Fascioliasis#Female#Heterografts#Humans#Mice#Middle Aged#Thailand'
b'Xanthones are phytochemical compounds found in a number of fruits and vegetables. Characteristically, they are noted to be made of diverse properties based on their biological, biochemical, and pharmacological actions. Accordingly, the apoptosis mechanisms induced by beta-mangostin, a xanthone compound isolated from Cratoxylum arborescens in the human promyelocytic leukemia cell line (HL60) in vitro, were examined in this study. The 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay was done to estimate the cytotoxicity effect of \xce\xb2-mangostin on the HL60 cell line. Acridine orange/propidium iodide and Hoechst 33342 dyes and Annexin V tests were conducted to detect the apoptosis features. Caspase-3 and caspase-9 activities; reactive oxygen species; real-time polymerase chain reaction for Bcl-2, Bax, caspase-3, and caspase-9 Hsp70 genes; and western blot for p53, cytochrome c, and pro- and cleavage-caspase-3 and caspase-9 were assessed to examine the apoptosis mechanism. Cell-cycle analysis conducted revealed that \xce\xb2-mangostin inhibited the growth of HL60 at 58\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M in 24\xe2\x80\x89h. The administration of \xce\xb2-mangostin with HL60 caused cell morphological changes related to apoptosis which increased the number of early and late apoptotic cells. The \xce\xb2-mangostin-catalyzed apoptosis action through caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-9 activation overproduced reactive oxygen species which downregulated the expression of antiapoptotic genes Bcl-2 and HSP70. Conversely, the expression of the apoptotic genes Bax, caspase-3, and caspase-9 were upregulated. Meanwhile, at the protein level, \xce\xb2-mangostin activated the formation of cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-9 and also upregulated the p53. \xce\xb2-mangostin arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1phase. Overall, the results for \xce\xb2-mangostin showed an antiproliferative effect in HL60 via stopping the cell cycle at the G0/G1phase and prompted the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Clusiaceae#Down-Regulation#G1 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Plant Extracts#Reactive Oxygen Species#Xanthones'
b'The role of microRNAs in brain cancer is still naive. Some act as oncogene and others as tumor suppressors. Discovery of efficient biomarkers is mandatory to debate that aggressive disease. Bioinformatically selected microRNAs and their targets were investigated to evaluate their putative signature as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in primary glioblastoma multiforme. Expression of a panel of seven microRNAs (hsa-miR-34a, hsa-miR-16, hsa-miR-17, hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-221, hsa-miR-326, and hsa-miR-375) and seven target genes ( E2F3, PI3KCA, TOM34, WNT5A, PDCD4, DFFA, and EGFR) in 43 glioblastoma multiforme specimens were profiled compared to non-cancer tissues via quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry staining for three proteins (VEGFA, BAX, and BCL2) was performed. Gene enrichment analysis identified the biological regulatory functions of the gene panel in glioma pathway. MGMT ( O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase) promoter methylation was analyzed for molecular subtyping of tumor specimens. Our data demonstrated a significant upregulation of five microRNAs (hsa-miR-16, hsa-miR-17, hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-221, and hsa-miR-375), three genes ( E2F3, PI3KCA, and Wnt5a), two proteins (VEGFA and BCL2), and downregulation of hsa-miR-34a and three other genes ( DFFA, PDCD4, and EGFR) in brain cancer tissues. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that miR-34a (area under the curve = 0.927) and miR-17 (area under the curve = 0.900) had the highest diagnostic performance, followed by miR-221 (area under the curve = 0.845), miR-21 (area under the curve = 0.836), WNT5A (area under the curve = 0.809), PDCD4 (area under the curve = 0.809), and PI3KCA (area under the curve = 0.800). MGMT promoter methylation status was associated with high miR-221 levels. Moreover, patients with VEGFA overexpression and downregulation of TOM34 and BAX had poor overall survival. Nevertheless, miR-17, miR-221, and miR-326 downregulation were significantly associated with high recurrence rate. Multivariate analysis by hierarchical clustering classified patients into four distinct groups based on gene panel signature. In conclusion, the explored microRNA-target dysregulation could pave the road toward developing potential therapeutic strategies for glioblastoma multiforme. Future translational and functional studies are highly recommended to better understand the complex bio-molecular signature of this difficult-to-treat tumor. labels: #Adult#Area Under Curve#Brain Neoplasms#Cluster Analysis#Female#Glioblastoma#Humans#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#ROC Curve#Transcriptome'
b'Accurate staging of rectal cancer remains essential for optimal patient selection for combined modality treatment, including radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgery. We aimed at examining the correlation of cell free DNA with the pathologic stage and subsequent risk of recurrence for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer undergoing preoperative chemoradiation. We examined 75 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer receiving preoperative chemoradiation. Blood samples for translational use were drawn prior to rectal surgery. The level of cell free DNA was quantified by digital droplet PCR and expressed as copy number of beta 2 microglobulin. We found a median level of cell free DNA in the AJCC stages I-III of 3100, 8300, and 10,700 copies/mL respectively. For patients with 12 sampled lymph nodes or above, the median level of cell free DNA were 2400 copies/mL and 4400 copies/mL (p = 0.04) for node negative and node positive disease respectively. The median follow-up was 39 months and 11 recurrences were detected (15%). The median level for patients with recurrent disease was 13,000 copies/mL compared to 5200 copies/mL for non-recurrent patients (p = 0.08). We have demonstrated a correlation between the level of total cell free DNA and the pathologic stage and nodal involvement. Furthermore, we have found a trend towards a correlation with the risk of recurrence following resection of localized rectal cancer. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Chemoradiotherapy#DNA#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Rectal Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b'Lung cancer is one of the most frequently occurring cancers throughout the world as well as in Bangladesh. This study aimed to correlate the prognostic and/or predictive value of functional polymorphisms in SULT1A1 (rs9282861) and XRCC1 (rs25487) genes and lung cancer risk in Bangladeshi population. A case-control study was conducted which comprises 202 lung cancer patients and 242 healthy volunteers taking into account the age, sex, and smoking status. After isolation of genomic DNA, genotyping was done by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method and the lung cancer risk was evaluated as odds ratio that was adjusted for age, sex, and smoking status. A significant association was found between SULT1A1 rs9282861 and XRCC1 rs25487 polymorphisms and lung cancer risk. In case of rs9282861 polymorphism, Arg/His (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x895.06, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.05-8.41, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and His/His (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.88, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.20-6.82, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) genotypes were strongly associated with increased risk of lung cancer in comparison to the Arg/Arg genotype. In case of rs25487 polymorphism, Arg/Gln heterozygote (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.57, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.79-7.46, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and Gln/Gln mutant homozygote (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.99, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.66-9.36, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) were also found to be significantly associated with increased risk of lung cancer. This study demonstrates that the presence of His allele and Gln allele in case of SULT1A1 rs9282861 and XRCC1 rs25487, respectively, involve in lung cancer prognosis in Bangladeshi population. labels: #Arylsulfotransferase#Bangladesh#Case-Control Studies#DNA-Binding Proteins#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Smoking#X-ray Repair Cross Complementing Protein 1'
b'Since the inception of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society heart failure (HF) guidelines in 2006, much has changed in the care for patients with HF. Over the past decade, the HF Guidelines Committee has published regular updates. However, because of the major changes that have occurred, the Guidelines Committee believes that a comprehensive reassessment of the HF management recommendations is\xc2\xa0presently needed, with a view to producing a full and complete set of updated guidelines. The primary and secondary Canadian Cardiovascular Society HF panel members as well as external experts have reviewed clinically relevant literature to provide guidance for the practicing clinician. The 2017 HF guidelines provide updated guidance on the diagnosis and management (self-care, pharmacologic, nonpharmacologic, device, and referral) that should aid in day-to-day decisions for caring for patients with HF. Among specific issues covered are risk scores, the differences in management for HF with preserved vs reduced ejection fraction, exercise and rehabilitation, implantable devices, revascularization, right ventricular dysfunction, anemia, and iron deficiency, cardiorenal syndrome, sleep apnea, cardiomyopathies, HF in pregnancy, cardio-oncology, and myocarditis. We devoted attention to strategies and treatments to prevent HF, to the organization of HF care, comorbidity management, as well as practical issues around the timing of referral and follow-up care. Recognition and treatment of advanced HF is another important aspect of this update, including how to select advanced therapies as well as end of life considerations. Finally, we acknowledge the remaining gaps in evidence that need to be filled by future research. labels: #Canada#Cardiology#Disease Management#Heart Failure#Humans#Societies, Medical'
b'BACKGROUND: Beginning in February 2012, there was a shortage of injectable furosemide in the province of Ontario, Canada. The objective of this study was to assess the effects of the furosemide shortage on heart failure outcomes in Ontario, Canada.METHODS: We determined which hospitals experienced a shortage of injectable furosemide using an online survey. We then used health administrative data to identify all patients who presented to those hospitals with congestive heart failure. Using 40 months of data from before the shortage, we determined the proportion of patients with heart failure expected to die each month. We then used time series analysis to forecast the 30-day mortality rate during the shortage period and compared it with the observed rate. Secondary outcomes included length of hospital stay, transfer to an intensive care unit, mechanical ventilation during the hospital stay, and risk of 30-day readmission for heart failure.RESULTS: Survey results were obtained for 82% of hospitals, 28 of which experienced a severe shortage of injectable furosemide in the year 2012. The 30-day mortality among patients presenting to these hospitals with congestive heart failure before the shortage period was 11.2%. We forecasted a mortality rate of 11.3% (95% confidence interval, 8.2-14.4) for the shortage period, which was not significantly different from the observed rate of 10.9%. Similarly, we found no significant effect of the shortage on secondary outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: A severe shortage of injectable furosemide did not increase the risk of adverse outcomes among patients who presented to the hospital with congestive heart failure. labels: #Diuretics#Female#Furosemide#Heart Failure#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Ontario#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate'
b'BACKGROUND: Studies examining treatment delay and survival after surgical treatment of colon cancer have varied in quality and outcome, with little evidence available regarding the safety of longer surgical treatment wait times.OBJECTIVE: Our study examined the effect of surgical treatment wait times on survival for patients with stage I to III colon cancer.DESIGN: A subset cohort analysis was performed using data from a prospectively maintained database.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a tertiary referral center.PATIENTS: Data on all of the patients undergoing elective surgery for stage I to III colon cancer from 2006 to 2015 were collected from a prospectively maintained clinical and administrative database.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We examined the impact of prolonged wait time to surgery on disease-free and overall survival. Patients were divided into 2 groups based on a treatment wait time of \xe2\x89\xa430 or>30 days and were compared using a Cox proportional hazards model. A subgroup analysis was performed using alternative treatment delay cutoffs of 60 and 90 days.RESULTS: There were 908 patients with stage I to III colon cancer treated over the study period, with a median treatment wait time of 38 days (interquartile range, 21-61 days); 368 patients were treated within 30 days, and 540 were treated beyond 30 days from diagnosis. In adjusted multivariate analysis, a treatment delay of>30 days was not associated with decreased disease-free survival (HR = 0.89 (95% CI, 0.61-1.3); p = 0.52) or overall survival (HR = 0.82 (95% CI, 0.63-1.1); p = 0.16). Likewise, subgroup analysis using alternative treatment delay cutoffs of 60 and 90 days did not demonstrate an adverse effect on survival.LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by retrospective analysis.CONCLUSIONS: Despite longer median treatment wait times from diagnosis to surgery, with the majority of patients exceeding 30 days and many experiencing delays of 2 to 3 months, no adverse impact on survival was observed. Patients who require additional consultations or investigations preoperatively may safely have their surgery moderately delayed to minimize their perioperative risk without any evidence that this will compromise treatment outcomes. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A397. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Appointments and Schedules#Colonic Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Ontario#Prospective Studies#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: A subset of patients with rectal cancer who undergo neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy will develop a complete pathologic tumor response. Complete nodal response is not universal in these patients and is difficult to assess clinically. Quantifying the risk of nodal disease would allow for targeted therapy with either radical resection or "watchful waiting."OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to identify risk factors for residual nodal disease in ypT0 rectal adenocarcinoma.DESIGN: This is a retrospective case control study.SETTINGS: The National Cancer Database 2006 to 2014 was used to identify patients for this study.PATIENTS: Patients with stage II/III rectal adenocarcinoma who completed chemoradiation therapy followed by resection and who had ypT0 tumors were included. Patients with metastatic disease and<2 lymph nodes evaluated were excluded. Patients were divided into 2 groups: node positive and node negative.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome was nodal disease. The secondary outcome was overall survival.RESULTS: A total of 42,257 patients with stage II/III rectal cancer underwent chemoradiation therapy and radical resection; 4170 (9.9%) patients had ypT0 tumors and 395 (9.5%) were node positive. Of patients with clinically node-negative disease (ie, pretreatment imaging), 6.2% were node positive after chemoradiation therapy and resection. In multivariable analysis, factors predictive of nodal disease included increasing (pretreatment) clinical N-stage, high tumor grade (3/4), perineural invasion, and lymphovascular invasion. Higher clinical T-stage was inversely associated with residual nodal disease. Overall 5-year survival was significantly different between patients with ypN0, ypN1, and ypN2 disease (87.4%, 82.2%, and 62.5%, p = 0.002).LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by the lack of clinical detail in the database and the inability to assess recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Ten percent of patients with ypT0 tumors had positive nodes after chemoradiation therapy and resection. Factors associated with residual nodal disease included clinical nodal disease at diagnosis and poor histologic features. Patients with any of these features should consider radical resection regardless of tumor response. Others could be suitable for "watchful waiting" strategies. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A458. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Case-Control Studies#Chemoradiotherapy#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Humans#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Neoplasm, Residual#Rectal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether traveling long distances to high-volume centers would compensate for travel burden among patients undergoing rectal cancer resection.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether operative volume outweighs the advantages of being treated locally by comparing the outcomes of patients with rectal cancer treated at local, low-volume centers versus far, high-volume centers.DESIGN: This was a population-based study.SETTINGS: The National Cancer Database was queried for patients with rectal cancer.PATIENTS: Patients with stage II or III rectal cancer who underwent surgical resection between 2006 and 2012 were included.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The outcomes of interest were margins, lymph node yield, receipt of neoadjuvant chemoradiation, adjuvant chemotherapy, readmission within 30 days, 30-day and 90-day mortality, and 5-year overall survival.RESULTS: A total of 18,605 patients met inclusion criteria; 2067 patients were in the long-distance/high-volume group and 1362 in the short-distance/low-volume group. The median travel distance was 62.6 miles for the long-distance/high-volume group and 2.3 miles for the short-distance/low-volume group. Patients who were younger, white, privately insured, and stage III were more likely to have traveled to a high-volume center. When controlled for patient factors, stage, and hospital factors, patients in the short-distance/low-volume group had lower odds of a lymph node yield \xe2\x89\xa512 (OR = 0.51) and neoadjuvant chemoradiation (OR = 0.67) and higher 30-day (OR = 3.38) and 90-day mortality (OR = 2.07) compared with those in the long-distance/high-volume group. The short-distance/low-volume group had a 34% high risk of overall mortality at 5 years compared with the long-distance/high-volume group.LIMITATIONS: We lacked data regarding patient and physician decision making and surgeon-specific factors.CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that when controlled for patient, tumor, and hospital factors, patients who traveled a long distance to a high-volume center had improved lymph node yield, neoadjuvant chemoradiation receipt, and 30- and 90-day mortality compared with those who traveled a short distance to a low-volume center. They also had improved 5-year survival. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A446. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenocarcinoma, Mucinous#Aged#Chemoradiotherapy#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Hospitals, High-Volume#Humans#Lymph Node Excision#Male#Margins of Excision#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Patient Readmission#Rectal Neoplasms#Risk Factors#Survival Rate#Travel#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Short-term results have shown that transanal total mesorectal excision is safe and effective for patients with mid to low rectal cancers. Transanal total mesorectal excision is considered technically challenging; thus, adoption has been limited to a few academic centers in the United States.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to describe outcomes after the initiation of a transanal total mesorectal excision program in the setting of an academic colorectal training program.DESIGN: This is a single-center retrospective review of consecutive patients who underwent transanal total mesorectal excision from December 2014 to August 2016.SETTING: This study was conducted at an academic center with a colorectal residency program.PATIENTS: Patients with benign and malignant diseases were selected.INTERVENTION: All transanal total mesorectal excisions were performed with abdominal and perineal teams working simultaneously.OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes measured were pathologic quality, length of hospital stay, 30-day morbidity, and 30-day mortality.RESULTS: There were 40 patients (24 male). The median age was 55 years (interquartile range, 46.7-63.4) with a median BMI of 29\xe2\x80\x89kg/m (interquartile range, 24.6-32.4). The primary indication was cancer (n = 30), and tumor height from the anal verge ranged from 0.5 to 15\xe2\x80\x89cm. Eighty percent (n = 24) of the patients who had rectal cancer received preoperative chemoradiation. The most common procedures were low anterior resection (67.5%), total proctocolectomy (15%), and abdominoperineal resection (12.5%). Median operative time was 380 minutes (interquartile range, 306-454.4), with no change over time. For patients with malignancy, the mesorectum was complete or nearly complete in 100% of the specimens. A median of 14 lymph nodes (interquartile range, 12-17) were harvested, and 100% of the rectal cancer specimens achieved R0 status. Median length of stay was 4.5 days (interquartile range, 4-7), and there were 6 readmissions (15%). There were no deaths or intraoperative complications.LIMITATIONS: This study's limitations derive from its retrospective nature and single-center location.CONCLUSIONS: A transanal total mesorectal excision program can be safely implemented in a major academic medical center. Quality outcomes and patient safety depend on a comprehensive training program and a coordinated team approach. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A448. labels: #Academic Medical Centers#Education, Medical, Graduate#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Internship and Residency#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Rectal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Transanal Endoscopic Surgery#United States"
b"BACKGROUND: The existing scores reflecting the patient's nutritional and inflammatory status do not include all biomarkers and have been poorly studied in colorectal cancers.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess a new prognostic tool, the Naples prognostic score, comparing it with the prognostic nutritional index, controlling nutritional status score, and systemic inflammation score.DESIGN: This was an analysis of patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a university hospital.PATIENTS: A total of 562 patients who underwent surgery for colorectal cancer in July 2004 through June 2014 and 468 patients undergoing potentially curative surgery were included. MaxStat analysis dichotomized neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio, lymphocyte:monocyte ratio, prognostic nutritional index, and the controlling nutritional status score. The Naples prognostic scores were divided into 3 groups (group 0, 1, and 2). The receiver operating characteristic curve for censored survival data compared the prognostic performance of the scoring systems.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Overall survival and complication rates in all patients, as well as recurrence and disease-free survival rates in radically resected patients, were measured.RESULTS: The Naples prognostic score correlated positively with the other scoring systems (p<0.001) and worsened with advanced tumor stages (p<0.001). Patients with the worst Naples prognostic score experienced more postoperative complications (all patients, p = 0.010; radically resected patients, p = 0.026). Compared with group 0, patients in groups 1 and 2 had worse overall (group 1, HR = 2.90; group 2, HR = 8.01; p<0.001) and disease-free survival rates (group 1, HR = 2.57; group 2, HR = 6.95; p<0.001). Only the Naples prognostic score was an independent significant predictor of overall (HR = 2.0; p = 0.03) and disease-free survival rates (HR = 2.6; p = 0.01). The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that the Naples prognostic score had the best prognostic performance and discriminatory power for overall (p = 0.02) and disease-free survival (p = 0.04).LIMITATIONS: This is a single-center study, and its validity needs additional external validation.CONCLUSIONS: The Naples prognostic score is a simple tool strongly associated with long-term outcome in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A469. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Hospitals, University#Humans#Inflammation#Italy#Lymph Node Excision#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#Nutritional Status#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: A Clostridium difficile-associated risk of death score was recently developed and validated by using a national cohort of both nonsurgical and surgical patients admitted with C difficile infection. However, risk scores specifically derived from surgical cohorts and designed for patients with C difficile infection are currently unavailable.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a risk of death score for patients with C difficile infection who are being considered for total abdominal colectomy because of the failure of medical therapy.DESIGN: This is a retrospective cohort study.SETTINGS: This study was conducted with the use of a national database.PATIENTS: All patients undergoing total colectomy for C difficile infection were identified in the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database from 2005 to 2014.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Variables similar to the original scoring system were used in multivariable analyses to determine the risk of 30-day mortality for patients, and a model was constructed to estimate the predicted probability of mortality after surgery.RESULTS: Of 532 patients who underwent surgery, 32.7% experienced 30-day postoperative mortality. Patient covariates associated with significantly increased mortality included age greater than 80 years (OR 5.5, p = 0.003), need for preoperative mechanical ventilation (OR 3.1, p<0.001), chronic steroid use (OR 2.9, p<0.001), underlying cardiopulmonary disease (OR 2.0, p = 0.001), and acute renal failure (OR=1.7, p = 0.03). These and other comorbidities, including hepatic disease, a cancer diagnosis, and both insulin- and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, were used to construct a model to estimate the predicted probability of mortality, which ranged from 8.0% to 96.1% based on individual comorbidity profiles. These estimates differed substantially when compared with those obtained using the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program risk calculator, which estimated the risk of mortality among surgical patients as being consistently lower.LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by its retrospective design.CONCLUSIONS: Our surgical scoring system allows preoperative risk stratification for patients being evaluated for colectomy for C difficile infection, potentially helping to avoid futile surgery. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A434. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Clostridium difficile#Colectomy#Comorbidity#Enterocolitis, Pseudomembranous#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Preoperative bowel preparation with or without oral antibiotics is controversial in terms of postoperative surgical site infections.OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of oral antibiotics as adjunct therapy to systemic antibiotics with mechanical bowel preparation for preventing surgical site infections in clean contaminated, contaminated, and dirty colorectal procedures.DESIGN: This was a single-center, prospective randomized study.SETTING: This study was conducted at the General Surgery Department at Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University, China, from July 15, 2014 to January 20, 2016.PATIENTS: Patients aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years scheduled for abdominal surgery with clean-contaminated, contaminated, and dirty wounds were selected.INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly assigned to receive preoperative mechanical bowel preparation or mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics.MAIN OUTCOMES: The primary outcome was the rate of surgical site infections. The secondary outcomes were extra-abdominal complications, duration of postoperative ileus, and readmission rate.RESULTS: Ninety-five patients were allocated to each group. Eight and 26 surgical site infections (8.42% vs 27.3 %, p = 0.004) occurred in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics and mechanical bowel preparation groups. Thirteen extra-abdominal complications were reported: 6 in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics group and 7 in the mechanical bowel preparation group (6.3% vs 7.3%, p = 0.77). Postoperative ileus duration did not differ between groups (p = 0.23). There were 4 readmissions in the mechanical bowel preparation group and none in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics group (p = 0.04). On multivariable analysis, blood loss \xe2\x89\xa5500\xe2\x80\x89mL (OR, 5.1; 95% CI, 1.27-20.4; p = 0.02), ASA score \xe2\x89\xa53 (OR, 3.9; 95% CI, 1.2-12.5; p = 0.01), contaminated types (OR, 3.6; 95% CI, 1.5-8.6; p = 0.01), and administration of preoperative oral antibiotics (OR, 0.20; 95% CI, 0.06-0.60; p = 0.005) independently affected the incidence of surgical site infections.LIMITATIONS: This was a single-center study.CONCLUSION: Preoperative oral antibiotics, as adjunct therapy to systemic antibiotics and mechanical bowel preparation, significantly reduced surgical site infections and minimized the readmission rates in clean contaminated, contaminated, and dirty types of colorectal surgery. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A437. labels: #Administration, Oral#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Cathartics#China#Colorectal Surgery#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Preoperative Care#Prospective Studies#Surgical Wound Infection#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND: Approximately half of Crohn's patients require intestinal resection, and many need repeat resections.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the increased risk of clinical anastomotic leak in patients with a history of previous intestinal resection undergoing repeat resection with anastomosis for Crohn's disease.DESIGN: This was a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected departmental data with 100% capture.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at the department of colorectal surgery in a tertiary care teaching hospital between July 2007 and March 2016.PATIENTS: A cohort of consecutive patients with Crohn's disease who were treated with intestinal resection and anastomosis, excluding patients with proximal fecal diversion, were included. The cohort was divided into 2 groups, those with no previous resection compared with those with previous resection.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical anastomotic leak within 30 days of surgery was measured.RESULTS: Of the 206 patients who met criteria, 83 patients had previous intestinal resection (40%). The 2 groups were similar in terms of patient factors, immune-suppressing medication use, and procedural factors. Overall, 20 clinical anastomotic leaks were identified (10% leak rate). There were 6 leaks (5%) detected in patients with no previous intestinal resection and 14 leaks (17%) detected in patients with a history of previous intestinal resection (p<0.005). The OR of anastomotic leak in patients with Crohn's disease with previous resection compared with no previous resection was 3.5 (95% CI, 1.3-9.4). Patients with 1 previous resection (n = 53) had a leak rate of 13%, whereas patients with \xe2\x89\xa52 previous resections (n = 30) had a leak rate of 23%. The number of previous resections correlated with increasing risk for clinical anastomotic leak (correlation coefficient = 0.998).LIMITATIONS: This was a retrospective study with limited data to perform a multivariate analysis.CONCLUSIONS: Repeat intestinal resection in patients with Crohn's disease is associated with an increased rate of anastomotic leakage when compared with initial resection despite similar patient, medication, and procedural factors. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A459. labels: #Anastomotic Leak#Crohn Disease#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Reoperation#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors"
b"BACKGROUND: Defective cell-mediated immunity increases the risk of human papillomavirus-associated anal dysplasia and cancer. There is limited information on anal canal disease in patients with IBD.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess anal/vaginal human papillomavirus and anal dysplasia prevalence in patients with IBD.DESIGN: Patients had an anal examination before routine colonoscopy.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a tertiary IBD referral center.PATIENTS: We studied a convenience sample of sexually active male and female patients with IBD who were not on biological therapy.INTERVENTION: Anal examination, anal and vaginal human papillomavirus testing, anal cytology, and high-resolution anoscopy/biopsy were carried out.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anal and vaginal human papillomavirus types, anal cytology, and biopsy grade were measured.RESULTS: Twenty-five male and 21 female evaluable participants, 31 with Crohn's disease, 14 with ulcerative colitis, and 1 with indeterminate colitis, were predominantly white (91.3%), treatment experienced (76.1%), an average age of 38.1 years (range, 22.0-66.0 y), and had an average length of IBD diagnosis of 9.3 years (range, 1.0-33.0 y). Eighteen (39.1%) had an abnormal perianal examination and 3 (6.5%) had an abnormal digital examination. Forty-one (89.1%) had anal human papillomavirus, 16 with a single type and 25 with multiple types (range, 2-5 types). Human papillomavirus type 16 was most common (65.2%), followed by human papillomavirus types 11 and 45 (37.0% each). Nineteen of 21 (90.5%) women had vaginal human papillomavirus. Overall, 21 (45.7%) had abnormal anal cytology. Thirty three (71.7%) had \xe2\x89\xa51 anal biopsy (9 had multiple), with dysplasia diagnosed in 28 (60.9%) and high-grade and low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions diagnosed in 4 (8.7%) and 24 (43.5%).LIMITATIONS: No control group was included, and no detailed sexual history was taken.CONCLUSIONS: A high prevalence of anal and vaginal human papillomavirus and anal dysplasia was demonstrated in the study population outcomes. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A379. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anus Diseases#Biopsy#Female#Humans#Inflammatory Bowel Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Papillomaviridae#Papillomavirus Infections#Pilot Projects#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Precancerous Conditions#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Vagina"
b'BACKGROUND: Decision-making for pulse generator implantation for sacral nerve stimulation in the management of fecal incontinence is based on the results of a test phase. Its duration is still a matter of debate.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether an early positive response during the test phase could predict implantation of a permanent sacral nerve pulse generator.DESIGN: This was a short-term observational cohort study. A positive response was defined as a>50% decrease of fecal leaks compared with baseline. A multivariate logistic regression was computed to predict pulse generator implantation after the first week of the test phase.SETTINGS: The study was conducted in 3 national referral centers.PATIENTS: From January 2006 to December 2012, 144 patients with fecal incontinence enrolled in a prospectively maintained database completed a 2- to 3-week bowel diary, at baseline and during test phase.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the clinical decision to implant a pulse generator. The primary predictor was a calculated score including the number of leak episodes, bowel movements, and urgencies and the time to defer defecation expressed in minutes during the first screening test week.RESULTS: After the first, second and third week of the test phase, 81 (56%) of 144, 96 (67%) of 144, and 93 (70%) of 131 patients had a positive test. A permanent pulse generator was implanted in 114. Time to defer defecation increased during the 3 weeks of screening. Urgencies were unchanged. The computed score was predictive of a permanent pulse generator implantation (Se = 72.6% (95% CI, 59.8-83.1); Sp = 100% (95% CI, 78.2-100); c-index = 0.86 (95% CI, 0.78-0.94)).LIMITATIONS: No cost analysis or projection based on our proposal to reduce the test phase has been made.CONCLUSIONS: Permanent pulse generator implantation can be safely proposed early (1-week screening) to fast responders. Nonetheless, permanent implantation may be decided as well in patients exhibiting a delayed response. Whether a rapid response to sacral nerve stimulation could be predictive of a long-term response remains to be determined. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A452. labels: #Aged#Electric Stimulation Therapy#Fecal Incontinence#Female#Humans#Lumbosacral Plexus#Male#Middle Aged#Sacrum#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Regenerating muscle at a time remote from injury requires re-expression of cytokines to attract stem cells to start and sustain the process of repair.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the sustainability of muscle regeneration after treatment with a nonviral plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1.DESIGN: This was a randomized study.SETTINGS: The study was conducted with animals in a single research facility.INTERVENTIONS: Fifty-six female age-/weight-matched Sprague-Dawley rats underwent excision of the ventral half of the anal sphincter complex. Three weeks later, rats were randomly allocated (n = 8) to one of the following groups: no treatment, 100 \xce\xbcg of plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally, local injection of plasmid and 8\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, and plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally with injection of a gelatin scaffold mixed with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anal manometry, histology, immunohistochemistrym and morphometry were performed 8 weeks after treatment. Protein expression of cytokines CXCR4 and Myf5 was investigated 1 week after treatment (n = 6 per group). ANOVA was used, with p<0.0083 indicating significant differences for anal manometry and p<0.05 for all other statistical analysis.RESULTS: Eight weeks after treatment, all of the groups receiving the plasmid had significantly higher anal pressures than controls and more organized muscle architecture in the region of the defect. Animals receiving plasmid alone had significantly greater muscle in the defect (p = 0.03) than either animals with injury alone (p = 0.02) or those receiving the plasmid, cells, and scaffold (p = 0.03). Both smooth and skeletal muscles were regenerated significantly more after plasmid treatment. There were no significant differences in the protein levels of CXCR4 or Myf5.LIMITATIONS: The study was limited by its small sample size and because stromal cell-derived factor 1 was not blocked.CONCLUSIONS: A plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1 may be sufficient to repair an injured anal sphincter even long after the injury and in the absence of mesenchymal stem cell or scaffold treatments. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A451. labels: #Anal Canal#Animals#Chemokine CXCL12#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Manometry#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscle, Smooth#Myogenic Regulatory Factor 5#Plasmids#Random Allocation#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Receptors, CXCR5#Regeneration'
b'Mid-exponential cultures of two traditional biotechnological yeast species, winery Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the less ethanol tolerant bottom-fermenting brewery Saccharomyces pastorianus, were exposed to different concentrations of added ethanol (3, 5 and 8%) The degree of ethanol-induced cell stress was assessed by measuring the cellular activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), level of lipid peroxidation products, changes in cell lipid content and fatty acid profile. The resveratrol as an antioxidant was found to decrease the ethanol-induced rise of SOD activity and suppress the ethanol-induced decrease in cell lipids. A lower resveratrol concentration (0.5\xc2\xa0mg/l) even reduced the extent of lipid peroxidation in cells. Resveratrol also alleviated ethanol-induced changes in cell lipid composition in both species by strongly enhancing the proportion of saturated fatty acids and contributing thereby to membrane stabilization. Lower resveratrol concentrations could thus diminish the negative effects of ethanol stress on yeast cells and improve their physiological state. These effects may be utilized to enhance yeast vitality in high-ethanol-producing fermentations or to increase the number of yeast generations in brewery. labels: #Antioxidants#Ethanol#Fatty Acids#Lipid Metabolism#Lipid Peroxidation#Lipids#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Stilbenes#Stress, Physiological#Superoxide Dismutase#Wine'
b'The crude extract isolated from the visceral mass of Anadara granosa, an intertidal bivalve mollusc was tested for inhibitory activity against pathogenic bacteria of the shrimp and fish viz. Vibrio harveyi and Staphylococcus aureus respectively by agar well diffusion and contact bioautography methods. Maximum inhibitory activity was shown against V. harveyi by methanol and chloroform (9:1) extract. Twelve fractions (1-12) could be separated from the crude extract through column chromatography. Five out of twelve fractions (7, 8, 9, 10, and 11) showed antibacterial activity and they were further run on column chromatography for purity. The fraction no. 9 showed highest antibacterial activity among the five and was subjected to NMR for the proton, C13and H1-H1correlation, IR and mass spectral analysis for structural elucidation. Structure of the compound isolated from fraction no: 9 was determined as 1-(((2Z, 4Z)-dodeca-2,4-dienoyl)oxy)-3-hydroxypropan-2-yl tetradecanoate. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Arcidae#Artemia#Biological Factors#Methanol#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Staphylococcus aureus#Vibrio'
b'Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been widely used for wine fermentation and bio-fuels production. A S. cerevisiae strain Sc131 isolated from tropical fruit shows good fermentation properties and ethanol tolerance, exhibiting significant potential in Chinese bayberry wine fermentation. In this study, RNA-sequence and RT-qPCR was used to investigate the transcriptome profile of Sc131 in response to ethanol stress. Scanning Electron Microscopy were carried out to observe surface morphology of yeast cells. Totally, 937 genes were identified differential expressed, including 587 up-regulated and 350 down-regulated genes, after 4-h ethanol stress (10% v/v). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that, most genes involved in regulating filamentous growth or pseudohyphal growth were significantly up-regulated in response to ethanol stress. The complex protein quality control machineries, Hsp90/Hsp70 and Hsp104/Hsp70/Hsp40 based chaperone system combining with ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic pathway were both activated to recognize and degrade misfolding proteins. Genes related to biosynthesis and metabolism of two well-known stress-responsive substances trehalose and ergosterol were generally up-regulated, while genes associated with amino acids biosynthesis and metabolism processes were differentially expressed. Moreover, thiamine was also important in response to ethanol stress. This research may promote the potential applications of Sc131 in the fermentation of Chinese bayberry wine. labels: #Amino Acids#Down-Regulation#Ergosterol#Ethanol#Fermentation#Gene Expression Profiling#Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex#Proteolysis#RNA#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Stress, Physiological#Transcriptome#Trehalose#Ubiquitin#Up-Regulation#Wine'
b'Over the past four decades we have witnessed great progress and increasing pregnancy success rates with in\xc2\xa0vitro fertilization. However, this apparent success has been accompanied by the burden of multiple pregnancies. While efforts to reduce the number of embryos transferred have had a salutary impact on the incidence of high order multiple pregnancies, twin gestations have not diminished significantly. Thus, the search for a marker of embryo quality with the goal of selecting the single best embryo for transfer continues to be the major challenge facing our field. The four contributions in this Views and Reviews present several contemporary approaches, both invasive and non-invasive, for evaluating embryo viability. Each group makes the case that recent techniques, including time-lapse microscopy, biomechanical markers for oocytes and embryos, novel non-invasive methods of evaluating embryo metabolism and function as well as measurement of mitochondrial DNA, will allow the identification of the single best embryo for transfer. They describe several promising markers of embryo viability, although the goal of finding the "holy grail" of embryo selection has not yet been realized. labels: #Biomarkers#Blastocyst#Cell Survival#DNA, Mitochondrial#Embryo Implantation#Female#Fertility#Fertilization in Vitro#Genetic Markers#Humans#Infertility#Microscopy#Predictive Value of Tests#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Pregnancy, Multiple#Single Embryo Transfer#Time-Lapse Imaging#Treatment Outcome'
b'Objectives: Transmission of polio poses a threat to military forces when deploying to regions where such viruses are endemic. US-born soldiers generally enter service with immunity resulting from childhood immunization against polio; moreover, new recruits are routinely vaccinated with inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), supplemented based upon deployment circumstances. Given residual protection from childhood vaccination, risk-based vaccination may sufficiently protect troops from polio transmission.Methods: This analysis employed a mathematical system for polio transmission within military populations interacting with locals in a polio-endemic region to evaluate changes in vaccination policy.Results: Removal of blanket immunization had no effect on simulated polio incidence among deployed military populations when risk-based immunization was employed; however, when these individuals reintegrated with their base populations, risk of transmission to nondeployed personnel increased by 19%. In the absence of both blanket- and risk-based immunization, transmission to nondeployed populations increased by 25%. The overall number of new infections among nondeployed populations was negligible for both scenarios due to high childhood immunization rates, partial protection against transmission conferred by IPV, and low global disease incidence levels.Conclusion: Risk-based immunization driven by deployment to polio-endemic regions is sufficient to prevent transmission among both deployed and nondeployed US military populations. labels: #Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Humans#Immunization Programs#Incidence#Mathematical Concepts#Military Personnel#Models, Biological#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus Vaccine, Inactivated#Risk Factors#United States'
b'Besides the influenza virus (IV), several other viruses are responsible for influenza-like illness (ILI). Although human parechoviruses (HPeVs) and enteroviruses (EVs) may impact on ILI, limited data on their epidemiological characteristics are available. During seven consecutive winter seasons (from 2010-2011 to 2016-2017), within the framework of an influenza surveillance system (InfluNet), 593 respiratory swabs were collected from children \xe2\x89\xa45\xe2\x80\x89years of age with ILIs. Molecular detection showed that 58.3\xe2\x80\x8a% of swabs were positive for at least one of the viruses under study: 46\xe2\x80\x8a% for IV, 13\xe2\x80\x8a% for EV and 5.4\xe2\x80\x8a% for HPeV. A single virus was identified in 51.3\xe2\x80\x8a% of samples while more than one virus was detected in 7\xe2\x80\x8a% of the samples. The risk of contracting IV was higher than the risk associated with EV, which in turn was higher than the risk of contracting HPeV. The risk of developing an IV infection was twofold greater in children>3\xe2\x80\x89years than in those \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x89years, who had higher risk of EV/HPeV infection. The frequency of EV/HPeV-positive swabs increased significantly during the 2016-2017 winter season compared to the previous six seasons. Sixteen EV genotypes were identified belonging to species A and B. HPeV-1 was the most frequently detected genotype, followed by -6 and -3. In this study, IV was mainly responsible for ILI, however EV and HPeV were also involved and particularly affected children \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x89years of age. Influenza surveillance samples could provide us with valuable insight into the epidemiological features of viruses involved in ILI. labels: #Child#Enterovirus#Genetic Variation#Humans#Italy#Molecular Epidemiology#Orthomyxoviridae#Parechovirus#Prevalence#Respiratory Tract Infections'
b"Objectives: Recent commercialization of methods for in situ hybridization using Z-pair probe/branched DNA amplification has led to increasing adoption of this technology for interrogating RNA expression in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues. Current practice for FFPE block storage is to maintain them at room temperature, often for many years.Methods: To examine the effects of block storage time on FFPE tissues using a number of RNA in situ probes with the Advanced Cellular Diagnostic's RNAscope assay.Results: We report marked reductions in signals after 5 years and significant reductions often after 1 year. Furthermore, storing unstained slides cut from recent cases (<1 year old) at -20\xc2\xb0C can preserve hybridization signals significantly better than storing the blocks at room temperature and cutting the slides fresh when needed.Conclusions: We submit that the standard practice of storing FFPE tissue blocks at room temperature should be reevaluated to better preserve RNA for in situ hybridization. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Neoplasm#Cold Temperature#Cryopreservation#Humans#In Situ Hybridization#Male#Mice#Paraffin Embedding#Prostatic Neoplasms#RNA#Tissue Array Analysis#Tissue Fixation"
b'Objectives: We sought to test recent guidelines for preserving immunoreactivity of precut slides, to quantify loss of immunoreactivity, and to determine potential for preservation by altering storage conditions.Methods: Precut slides from tissue microarrays were stored under one of several conditions: exposed to ambient air at room temperature, 4\xc2\xb0C, or -20\xc2\xb0C or in a vacuum-sealed container at room temperature, -20\xc2\xb0C, -80\xc2\xb0C, or with paraffin coating. At multiple intervals over 1 year, slides were stained with antibodies against p53, isocitrate dehydrogenase 1, Ki-67, synaptophysin, and androgen receptor and evaluated.Results: Compared with time 0, the overall median percentage immunoreactivity was 66% at 6 months and 51% at 1 year. During the experiment, this was as low as 55% for precut slides stored in paraffin coating and up to 87% for those stored at -20\xc2\xb0C. Vacuum sealing was an effective preservative for some antibody targets and detrimental for others. Storage at -80\xc2\xb0C did not have added value.Conclusions: For precut slides, there is a time, storage condition, and antibody-dependent loss of immunoreactivity that could compromise analysis of prognostic, predictive, and diagnostic markers. Our findings support previous recommendations and suggest that the best storage conditions are at -20\xc2\xb0C, without paraffin coating or vacuum sealing. labels: #Epitopes#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Longitudinal Studies#Neoplasms#Paraffin Embedding#Prospective Studies#Specimen Handling#Time Factors#Tissue Array Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of operating room headgear in preventing airborne contamination has been called into question. We hypothesized that bouffant style hats would be as effective in preventing bacterial and particulate contamination in the operating room compared with disposable or cloth skull caps, and bouffant style hats would have similar permeability, particle penetration, and porosity compared with skull caps.STUDY DESIGN: Disposable bouffant and skull cap hats and newly laundered cloth skull caps were tested. A mock surgical procedure was used in a dynamic operating room environment. Airborne particulate and microbial contaminants were sampled. Hat fabric was tested for permeability, particle transmission, and pore sizes.RESULTS: No significant differences were observed between disposable bouffant and disposable skull caps with regard to particle or actively sampled microbial contamination. However, when compared with disposable skull caps, disposable bouffant hats did have significantly higher microbial shed at the sterile field, as measured by passive settle plate analysis (p<0.05). When compared with cloth skull caps, disposable bouffants yielded higher levels of 0.5 \xce\xbcm and 1.0 \xce\xbcm particles and significantly higher microbial shed detected with passive analysis. Fabric assessment determined that disposable bouffant hats had larger average and maximum pore sizes compared with cloth skull caps, and were significantly more permeable than either disposable or cloth skull caps.CONCLUSIONS: Disposable bouffant hats had greater permeability, penetration, and greater microbial shed, as assessed by passive microbial analysis compared with disposable skull caps. When compared with cloth skull caps, disposable bouffants yielded greater permeability, greater particulate contamination, and greater passive microbial shed. Disposable style bouffant hats should not be considered superior to skull caps in preventing airborne contamination in the operating room. labels: #Disposable Equipment#Environment, Controlled#Humans#Operating Rooms#Textiles'
b'With ongoing resistance problems against the marketed EGFR inhibitors having a quinazoline core scaffold there is a need for the development of novel inhibitors having a modified scaffold and, thus, expected lower EGFR resistance problems. An additional problem concerning EGFR inhibitor resistance is an observed heterodimerization of EGFR with PDGFR-\xce\xb2 that neutralises the sole inhibitor activity towards EGFR. We developed novel pyrimido[4,5-b]indoles with varied substitution patterns at the 4-anilino residue to evaluate their EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 inhibiting properties. We identified dual inhibitors of both EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 in the nanomolar range which have been initially screened in cancer cell lines to prove a benefit of both EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 inhibition. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Discovery#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Humans#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptor, Platelet-Derived Growth Factor beta#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'In search of new non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) with improved solubility, two series of novel diaryl ethers with phenacyl moiety were designed and evaluated for their HIV-1 reverse transcriptase inhibition potentials. All compounds exhibited good to excellent results with IC50at low micromolar to submicromolar concentrations. Two most active compounds (7e and 7\xe2\x80\x89g) exhibit inhibitory potency comparable or even better than that of nevirapine and rilpivirine. Furthermore, SupT1 and CD4+cell infectivity assays for the most promising (7e) have confirmed its strong antiviral potential while docking studies indicate a novel binding interactions responsible for high activity. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Catechols#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Design#Ethers#HIV Reverse Transcriptase#HIV-1#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Resorcinols#Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors#Solubility#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'The \xce\xb2-class carbonic anhydrase (CA, EC 4.2.1.1) from the pathogenic bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei, BpsCA\xce\xb2, that is responsible for the tropical disease melioidosis was investigated for its activation with natural and non-natural amino acids and amines. Previously, the \xce\xb3-CA from this bacterium has been investigated with the same library of 19 amines/amino acids, which show very potent activating effects on both enzymes. The most effective BpsCA\xce\xb2 activators were L- and D-DOPA, L- and D-Trp, L-Tyr, 4-amino-L-Phe, histamine, dopamine, serotonin, 2-pyridyl-methylamine, 1-(2-aminoethyl)-piperazine and L-adrenaline with KAs of 0.9-27\xe2\x80\x89nM. Less effective activators were D-His, L- and D-Phe, D-Tyr, 2-(2-aminoethyl)pyridine and 4-(2-aminoethyl)-morpholine with KAs of 73\xe2\x80\x89nM-3.42\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M. The activation of CAs from bacteria, such as BpsCA\xce\xb3/\xce\xb2, has not been considered previously for possible biomedical applications. It would be of interest to perform studies in which bacteria are cultivated in the presence of CA activators, which may contribute to understanding processes connected with the virulence and colonization of the host by pathogenic bacteria. labels: #Amines#Amino Acids#Burkholderia pseudomallei#Carbonic Anhydrases#Molecular Structure'
b'In our present research, we synthesised new thiazolidine-2,4-diones (12-28). All the newly synthesised compounds were evaluated for antiproliferative and antibacterial activity. Antiproliferative evaluation was carried out using normal human skin fibroblasts and tumour cell lines: A549, HepG2, and MCF-7. The IC50values were determined for tested compounds revealing antiproliferative activity. Moreover, safety index (SI) was calculated. Among all tested derivatives, the compound 18 revealed the highest antiproliferative activity against human lung, breast, and liver cancer cells. More importantly, the derivative 18 showed meaningfully lower IC50values when compared to the reference substance, irinotecan, and relatively high SI values. Moreover, newly synthesised compounds were screened for the bacteria growth inhibition in vitro. According to our screening results, most active compound was the derivative 18 against Gram-positive bacteria. Therefore, it may be implied that the novel compound 18 appears to be a very promising agent for anticancer treatment. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gram-Negative Bacteria#Gram-Positive Bacteria#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thiazolidinediones'
b'A series of 2-amino-5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones were designed, synthesised and investigated for MAO and ChE inhibition properties. Most of the compounds showed preferential inhibition towards MAO-B. Compound 4, (1-(1-(4-Bromophenyl)ethylidene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide) emerged as lead candidate (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.212\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, SI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89331.04) against MAO-B; whereas compounds 21 1-(5-Bromo-2-oxoindolin-3-ylidene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.264\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M) and 17 1-((4-Chlorophenyl) (phenyl)methylene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.024\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M) emerged as lead AChE and BuChE inhibitors respectively; with activity of compound 21 almost equivalent to tacrine. Kinetic studies indicated that compound 4 exhibited competitive and reversible MAO-B inhibition while compounds 21 and 17 showed mixed-type of AChE and BuChE inhibition respectively. Docking studies revealed that these compounds were well-accommodated within MAO-B and ChE active sites through stable hydrogen bonding and/or hydrophobic interactions. This study revealed the requirement of small heteroaryl ring at amino terminal of semicarbazone template for preferential inhibition and selectivity towards MAO-B. Our results suggest that 5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones could be further exploited for its multi-targeted role in development of anti-neurodegenerative agents. [Formula: see text] A library of 2-amino-5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones (4-21) was designed, synthesised and evaluated for in vitro MAO and ChE inhibitory activity. Compounds 4, 21 and 17 (shown) have emerged as lead MAO-B (IC50:0.212\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, competitive and reversible), AChE (IC50:0.264\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, mixed and reversible) and BuChE (IC50:0.024\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, mixed and reversible) inhibitor respectively. SAR studies disclosed several structural aspects significant for potency and selectivity and indicated the role of size of aryl binding site in potency and selectivity towards MAO-B. Antioxidant activity and neurotoxicity screening results further suggested their multifunctional potential for the therapy of neurodegenerative diseases. labels: #Acetylcholinesterase#Animals#Binding Sites#Brain#Cholinesterase Inhibitors#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Design#Mitochondria#Molecular Structure#Monoamine Oxidase#Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors#Particle Size#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Semicarbazones#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thiazoles'
b'Targeting EGFR has proven to be beneficial in the treatment of several types of solid tumours. So, a series of novel 2-(4-oxo-3-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)-3,4-dihydrobenzo[g]quinazolin-2-ylthio)-N-substituted acetamide 5-19 were synthesised from the starting material 4-(2-mercapto-4-oxobenzo[g]quinazolin-3(4H)-yl) benzenesulfonamide 4, to be evaluated as dual EGFR/HER2 inhibitors. The target compounds 5-19, were screened for their cytotoxic activity against A549 lung cancer cell line. The percentage inhibition of EGFR enzyme was measured and compared with erlotinib as the reference drug. Compounds 6, 8, 10, and 16 showed excellent EGFR inhibitory activity and were further selected for screening as dual EGFR/HER2 inhibitors. The four selected compounds showed IC50ranging from 0.009 to 0.026\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for EGFR and 0.021 to 0.069\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for the HER2 enzyme. Compound 8 was found to be the most potent in this study with IC500.009 and 0.021\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for EGFR and HER2, respectively. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Humans#Molecular Structure#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Quinazolines#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'The \xce\xb2-carbonic anhydrases (CAs, EC 4.2.1.1) from the pathogenic bacterium Clostridium perfringens (CpeCA) was recently characterised kinetically and for its anion inhibition profile. In the search of effective CpeCA inhibitors, possibly useful to inhibit the growth/pathogenicity of this bacterium, we report here an inhibition study of this enzyme with a panel of aromatic, heterocyclic and sugar sulphonamides/sulphamates. Some sulphonamides, such as acetazolamide, ethoxzolamide, dichlorophenamide, dorzolamide, sulthiame and 4-(2-hydroxymethyl-4-nitrophenyl-sulphonamido)ethylbenzenesulphonamide were effective CpeCA inhibitors, with KIs in the range of 37.4-71.6\xe2\x80\x89nM. Zonisamide and saccharin were the least effective such inhibitors, whereas many other aromatic and heterocyclic sulphonamides were moderate - weak inhibitors with KIs ranging between 113 and 8755\xe2\x80\x89nM. Thus, this study provides the basis for developing better clostridial enzyme inhibitors with potential as antiinfectives with a new mechanism of action. labels: #Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors#Carbonic Anhydrases#Clostridium perfringens#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Molecular Structure#Structure-Activity Relationship#Sulfonamides'
b'BACKGROUND: Post-market surveillance is needed to evaluate the real-world clinical effectiveness and safety of U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved devices.OBJECTIVES: The authors examined the commercial experience with transcatheter mitral valve repair for the treatment of mitral regurgitation.METHODS: Data from the Society of Thoracic Surgery/American College of Cardiology Transcatheter Valve Therapy Registry on patients commercially treated with transcatheter mitral valve repair were analyzed. The study population consisted of 2,952 patients treated at 145 hospitals between November 2013 and September 2015. In 1,867 patients, data were linked to patient-specific Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services administrative claims for analyses.RESULTS: The median age was 82 years (55.8% men), with a median Society of Thoracic Surgery predicted risk of mortality of 6.1% (interquartile range: 3.7% to 9.9%) and 9.2% (interquartile range: 6.0% to 14.1%) for mitral repair and replacement, respectively. Overall, in-hospital mortality was 2.7%. Acute procedure success occurred in 91.8%. Among the patients with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services linkage data, the mortality at 30\xc2\xa0days and at 1 year was 5.2% and 25.8%, respectively, and repeat hospitalization for heart failure at 1 year occurred in 20.2%. Variables associated with mortality or rehospitalization for heart failure after multivariate adjustment were increasing age, lower baseline left ventricular ejection fraction, worse post-procedural mitral regurgitation, moderate or severe lung disease, dialysis, and severe tricuspid regurgitation.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that commercial transcatheter mitral valve repair is being performed in the\xc2\xa0United States with acute effectiveness and safety. Our findings may help determine which patients have favorable long-term outcomes with this therapy. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiology#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mortality#Registries#Research Report#Societies, Medical#Thoracic Surgery#Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Very late scaffold thrombosis (VLScT) occurs more frequently after bioresorbable scaffold (Absorb BVS\xc2\xa01.1, Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, California) implantation than with metallic everolimus-eluting stents.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to elucidate mechanisms underlying VLScT as assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT).METHODS: The INVEST (Independent OCT Registry on Very Late Bioresorbable Scaffold Thrombosis) registry is an international consortium of investigators who used OCT to examine patients with VLScT.RESULTS: Between June 2013 and May 2017, 36 patients with 38 lesions who had VLScT underwent OCT at 19 centers. VLScT occurred at a median of 20\xc2\xa0months (interquartile range: 16 to 27\xc2\xa0months) after implantation. At the time of VLScT, 83% of patients received aspirin monotherapy and 17% received dual-antiplatelet therapy. The mechanisms underlying VLScT were (in descending order) scaffold discontinuity (42.1%), malapposition (18.4%), neoatherosclerosis (18.4%), underexpansion or scaffold recoil (10.5%), uncovered struts (5.3%), and edge-related disease progression (2.6%). Discontinuity (odds ratio [OR]: 110; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 73.5 to 173; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), malapposed struts (OR: 17.0; 95% CI: 14.8 to 19.7; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), and uncovered struts (OR: 7.3; 95% CI: 6.2 to 8.8; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) were more frequent in the thrombosed than the nonthrombosed scaffold regions. In 2 of 16 patients with scaffold discontinuity, intercurrent OCT before VLScT provided evidence of circularly apposed scaffold struts with minimal tissue coverage.CONCLUSIONS: The leading mechanism underlying VLScT was scaffold discontinuity, which suggests an unfavorable resorption-related process, followed by malapposition and neoatherosclerosis. It remains to be determined whether modifications in scaffold design and optimized implantation can mitigate the risk of VLScT. (Independent OCT Registry on Very Late Bioresorbable Scaffold Thrombosis [INVEST]; NCT03180931). labels: #Absorbable Implants#Adult#Coronary Thrombosis#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Registries#Tissue Scaffolds#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'BACKGROUND: Coronary vasomotor dysfunction is an important mechanism for angina in patients with unobstructed coronary arteries.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to determine sex differences in the prevalence and clinical presentation of vasomotor dysfunction in a European population and to examine sex differences in the dose of acetylcholine leading to a positive acetylcholine provocation test (ACH test).METHODS: Between 2007 and 2014, we included 1,379 consecutive patients with stable angina, unobstructed coronaries and ACH test performed for epicardial vasospasm or coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD) due to microvascular spasm. The predictive value of sex, risk factors, symptoms, and noninvasive test results was analyzed by means of logistic regression.RESULTS: The mean patient age was 62 years, and 42% were male. There were 813 patients (59%) with a pathological ACH test, 33% for CMD and 26% for epicardial vasospasm. A pathological test was more common in females (70% vs. 43%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001). In a multivariable logistic regression model the sex difference was statistically significant with a female-male odds ratio for CMD and epicardial vasospasm of 4.2 (95% confidence interval: 3.1 to 5.5; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) and 2.3\xc2\xa0(95% confidence interval: 1.7 to 3.1; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), respectively. Effort-related symptoms, but neither risk factors nor noninvasive stress tests, contributed to predicting a pathological test. Female patients were more sensitive to acetylcholine with vasomotor dysfunction occurring at lower ACH doses compared with male patients.CONCLUSIONS: Vasomotor dysfunction is frequent in patients with angina and unobstructed coronaries in a European population. Female patients have a higher prevalence of vasomotor dysfunction (especially CMD) compared with male\xc2\xa0patients. A pathological ACH test was observed at lower ACH doses in women compared with men. labels: #Acetylcholine#Aged#Angina Pectoris#Coronary Vasospasm#Coronary Vessels#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Europe#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sex Characteristics#Vasodilator Agents#Vasomotor System'
b'BACKGROUND: Eosinophilic myocarditis (EM) is an acute life-threatening inflammatory disease of the heart. Neither large case series nor clinical trials on this specific myocarditis have been reported.OBJECTIVES: Based on a systematic revision of all published histologically proven cases, this study aimed to describe the clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of EM.METHODS: The study screened 443 manuscripts in MEDLINE and EMBASE on cases of EM published until June 2017. The\xc2\xa0authors identified 264 patients and included in the main analysis 179 patients admitted to hospital with histologically\xc2\xa0proven EM.RESULTS: Median age was 41 years (interquartile range: 27 to 53 years) with similar prevalence in both sexes; pediatric\xc2\xa0cases (\xe2\x89\xa416 years of age) accounted for 10.1%. The main symptom at presentation was dyspnea (59.4%), with\xc2\xa0peripheral eosinophilia observed in 75.9%. Median left ventricular ejection fraction at presentation was 35% (interquartile range: 25% to 50%). The disorders most frequently associated with EM were hypersensitivity and\xc2\xa0eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, which accounted for 34.1% and 12.8% of cases, respectively, whereas\xc2\xa0idiopathic or undefined forms accounted for 35.7% of cases. Steroids were administered in 77.7% of patients. A\xc2\xa0temporary mechanical circulatory support (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa030) was instituted in 16.8% of patients. In-hospital death was 22.3%\xc2\xa0(n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa040), with the highest occurrence in the hypersensitivity form (36.1%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.026).CONCLUSIONS: EM has a poor prognosis during the acute phase, despite a publication bias that could have led to an\xc2\xa0overestimation of mortality. Associated conditions are identified in approximately 65% of cases. Specific trials and\xc2\xa0multicenter registries are needed to provide evidence-based treatments to improve in-hospital outcome. labels: #Adult#Coronary Angiography#Eosinophilia#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocarditis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Several clinical studies have evaluated the association between ST2 and outcome in patients with heart failure (HF). However, little is known about the predictive value of frequently measured ST2 levels in patients with acute HF.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to describe the prognostic value of baseline and repeated ST2 measurements in patients\xc2\xa0with acute HF.METHODS: In the TRIUMPH (Translational Initiative on Unique and novel strategies for Management of Patients with Heart failure) clinical cohort study, 496 patients with acute HF were enrolled in 14 hospitals in the Netherlands between 2009 and 2014. Repeated blood samples (7) were drawn during 1-year follow-up. ST2 and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels were measured in a central laboratory. The primary endpoint was the composite of all-cause mortality and HF rehospitalization. Associations between repeated biomarker measurements and the primary endpoint were assessed using a joint model.RESULTS: Median age was 74 years, and 37% of patients were women. The primary endpoint was reached in 188 patients\xc2\xa0(40%) during a median follow-up of 325\xc2\xa0days (interquartile range: 85 to 401). The median baseline ST2 level was 71\xc2\xa0ng/ml (interquartile range: 46 to 102). After adjustment for clinical factors and NT-proBNP, baseline ST2 was associated with an increased risk of the primary endpoint, and the hazard ratio per 1 SD increase of the baseline ST2 level (on the log2scale) was 1.30 (95% confidence interval: 1.08 to 1.56; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.005). When repeated measurements were taken into account, the adjusted hazard ratio per 1 SD increase of the ST2 level (on the log2scale) during follow-up increased to 1.85 (95%\xc2\xa0confidence interval: 1.02 to 3.33; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.044), adjusted for clinical factors and repeated measurements\xc2\xa0of NT-proBNP. Furthermore, ST2 levels appeared to elevate several weeks before the time of the primary\xc2\xa0endpoint.CONCLUSIONS: Repeated ST2 measurements appeared to be a strong predictor of outcome in patients with acute HF, independent of repeatedly measured NT-proBNP. Hence ST2 may be helpful in clinical practice for prognostication and\xc2\xa0treatment monitoring. (TRanslational Initiative on Unique and novel strategies for Management of Patients with\xc2\xa0Heart failure [TRIUMPH]; NTR1893). labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Biomarkers#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Failure#Humans#Interleukin-1 Receptor-Like 1 Protein#Male#Netherlands#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Translational Medical Research'
b'BACKGROUND: Recently, a new ablation strategy for atrial fibrillation has emerged, which involves the identification of rotors (ie, local drivers) followed by the localized targeting of their core region by ablation. However, this concept has been subject to debate because the mode of arrhythmia termination remains poorly understood, as dedicated models and research tools are lacking. We took a unique optogenetic approach to induce and locally target a rotor in atrial monolayers.METHODS AND RESULTS: Neonatal rat atrial cardiomyocyte monolayers expressing a depolarizing light-gated ion channel (Ca2+-translocating channelrhodopsin) were subjected to patterned illumination to induce single, stable, and centralized rotors by optical S1-S2 cross-field stimulation. Next, the core region of these rotors was specifically and precisely targeted by light to induce local conduction blocks of circular or linear shapes. Conduction blocks crossing the core region, but not reaching any unexcitable boundary, did not lead to termination. Instead, electric waves started to propagate along the circumference of block, thereby maintaining reentrant activity, although of lower frequency. If, however, core-spanning lines of block reached at least 1 unexcitable boundary, reentrant activity was consistently terminated by wave collision. Lines of block away from the core region resulted merely in rotor destabilization (ie, drifting).CONCLUSIONS: Localized optogenetic targeting of rotors in atrial monolayers could lead to both stabilization and destabilization of reentrant activity. For termination, however, a line of block is required reaching from the core region to at least 1 unexcitable boundary. These findings may improve our understanding of the mechanisms involved in rotor-guided ablation. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Atrial Fibrillation#Calcium Channels#Catheter Ablation#Cells, Cultured#Heart Atria#Heart Rate#Myocytes, Cardiac#Optogenetics#Rats, Wistar#Rhodopsin#Time Factors#Transfection'
b'Oral squamous cell carcinoma is one of the most malignant tumors with high mortality rate worldwide. Biomarker discovery is critical for early diagnosis and precision treatment of this disease. MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNA molecules which often regulate essential biological processes and are good candidates for biomarkers. By integrative analysis of both the cancer-associated gene expression data and microRNA-mRNA network, miR-148b-3p, miR-629-3p, miR-27a-3p, and miR-142-3p were screened as novel diagnostic biomarkers for oral squamous cell carcinoma based on their unique regulatory abilities in the network structure of the conditional microRNA-mRNA network and their important functions. These findings were confirmed by literature verification and functional enrichment analysis. Future experimental validation is expected for the further investigation of their molecular mechanisms. labels: #Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Computational Biology#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Regulatory Networks#Humans#MicroRNAs#Models, Genetic#Mouth Neoplasms#RNA, Messenger'
b'The introduction of forensic autosomal DNA profiles was controversial, but the problems were successfully addressed, and DNA profiling has gone on to revolutionise forensic science. Y-chromosome profiles are valuable when there is a mixture of male-source and female-source DNA, and interest centres on the identity of the male source(s) of the DNA. The problem of evaluating evidential weight is even more challenging for Y profiles than for autosomal profiles. Numerous approaches have been proposed, but they fail to deal adequately with the fact that men with matching Y-profiles are related in extended patrilineal clans, many of which may not be represented in available databases. The higher mutation rates of modern profiling kits have led to increased discriminatory power but they have also exacerbated the problem of fairly conveying evidential value. Because the relevant population is difficult to define, yet the number of matching relatives is fixed as population size varies, it is typically infeasible to derive population-based match probabilities relevant to a specific crime. We propose a conceptually simple solution, based on a simulation model and software to approximate the distribution of the number of males with a matching Y profile. We show that this distribution is robust to different values for the variance in reproductive success and the population growth rate. We also use importance sampling reweighting to derive the distribution of the number of matching males conditional on a database frequency, finding that this conditioning typically has only a modest impact. We illustrate the use of our approach to quantify the value of Y profile evidence for a court in a way that is both scientifically valid and easily comprehensible by a judge or juror. labels: #Chromosomes, Human, Y#DNA#DNA Fingerprinting#Forensic Genetics#Humans#Male#Probability#Reproduction#Software'
b'Short tandem repeats (STRs) are hyper-mutable sequences in the human genome. They are often used in forensics and population genetics and are also the underlying cause of many genetic diseases. There are challenges associated with accurately determining the length polymorphism of STR loci in the genome by next-generation sequencing (NGS). In particular, accurate detection of pathological STR expansion is limited by the sequence read length during whole-genome analysis. We developed TREDPARSE, a software package that incorporates various cues from read alignment and paired-end distance distribution, as well as a sequence stutter model, in a probabilistic framework to infer repeat sizes for genetic loci, and we used this software to infer repeat sizes for 30 known disease loci. Using simulated data, we show that TREDPARSE outperforms other available software. We sampled the full genome sequences of 12,632 individuals to an average read depth of approximately 30\xc3\x97 to 40\xc3\x97 with Illumina HiSeq X. We identified 138 individuals with risk alleles at 15 STR disease loci. We validated a representative subset of the samples (n = 19) by Sanger and by Oxford Nanopore sequencing. Additionally, we validated the STR calls against known allele sizes in a set of GeT-RM reference cell-line materials (n = 6). Several STR loci that are entirely guanine or cytosines (G or C) have insufficient read evidence for inference and therefore could not be assayed precisely by TREDPARSE. TREDPARSE extends the limit of STR size detection beyond the physical sequence read length. This extension is critical because many of the disease risk cutoffs are close to or beyond the short sequence read length of 100 to 150 bases. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Alleles#Child#Female#Genetics, Population#Genome, Human#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Male#Microsatellite Repeats#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Genetic#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Software'
b'Developmental and epileptic encephalopathy (DEE) is a group of conditions characterized by the co-occurrence of epilepsy and intellectual disability (ID), typically with developmental plateauing or regression associated with frequent epileptiform activity. The cause of DEE remains unknown in the majority of cases. We performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in 197 individuals with unexplained DEE and pharmaco-resistant seizures and in their unaffected parents. We focused our attention on de novo mutations (DNMs) and identified candidate genes containing such variants. We sought to identify additional subjects with DNMs in these genes by performing targeted sequencing in another series of individuals with DEE and by mining various sequencing datasets. We also performed meta-analyses to document enrichment of DNMs in candidate genes by leveraging our WGS dataset with those of several DEE and ID series. By combining these strategies, we were able to provide a causal link between DEE and the following genes: NTRK2, GABRB2, CLTC, DHDDS, NUS1, RAB11A, GABBR2, and SNAP25. Overall, we established a molecular diagnosis in 63/197 (32%) individuals in our WGS series. The main cause of DEE in these individuals was de novo point mutations (53/63 solved cases), followed by inherited mutations (6/63 solved cases) and de novo CNVs (4/63 solved cases). De novo missense variants explained a larger proportion of individuals in our series than in other series that were primarily ascertained because of ID. Moreover, these DNMs were more frequently recurrent than those identified in ID series. These observations indicate that the genetic landscape of DEE might be different from that of ID without epilepsy. labels: #Brain Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Epilepsy#Female#Genome, Human#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation#Recurrence#Seizures'
b'DHX30 is a member of the family of DExH-box helicases, which use ATP hydrolysis to unwind RNA secondary structures. Here we identified six different de novo missense mutations in DHX30 in twelve unrelated individuals affected by global developmental delay (GDD), intellectual disability (ID), severe speech impairment and gait abnormalities. While four mutations are recurrent, two are unique with one affecting the codon of one recurrent mutation. All amino acid changes are located within highly conserved helicase motifs and were found to either impair ATPase activity or RNA recognition in different in\xc2\xa0vitro assays. Moreover, protein variants exhibit an increased propensity to trigger stress granule (SG) formation resulting in global translation inhibition. Thus, our findings highlight the prominent role of translation control in development and function of the central nervous system and also provide molecular insight into how DHX30 dysfunction might cause a neurodevelopmental disorder. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Adolescent#Amino Acids#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Central Nervous System#Child#Child, Preschool#Developmental Disabilities#Female#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation, Missense#RNA#RNA Helicases'
b'The transatlantic slave trade was the largest forced migration in world history. However, the origins of the enslaved Africans and their admixture dynamics remain unclear. To investigate the demographic history of African-descendant Marron populations, we generated genome-wide data (4.3 million markers) from 107 individuals from three African-descendant populations in South America, as well as 124 individuals from six west African populations. Throughout the Americas, thousands of enslaved Africans managed to escape captivity and establish lasting communities, such as the Noir Marron. We find that this population has the highest proportion of African ancestry (\xe2\x88\xbc98%) of any African-descendant population analyzed to date, presumably because of centuries of genetic isolation. By contrast, African-descendant populations in Brazil and Colombia harbor substantially more European and Native American ancestry as a result of their complex admixture histories. Using ancestry tract-length analysis, we detect different dates for the European admixture events in the African-Colombian (1749 CE; confidence interval [CI]: 1737-1764) and African-Brazilian (1796 CE; CI: 1789-1804) populations in our dataset, consistent with the historically attested earlier influx of Africans into Colombia. Furthermore, we find evidence for sex-specific admixture patterns, resulting from predominantly European paternal gene flow. Finally, we detect strong genetic links between the African-descendant populations and specific source populations in Africa on the basis of haplotype sharing patterns. Although the Noir Marron and African-Colombians show stronger affinities with African populations from the Bight of Benin and the Gold Coast, the African-Brazilian population from Rio de Janeiro has greater genetic affinity with Bantu-speaking populations from the Bight of Biafra and west central Africa. labels: #Africa#African Continental Ancestry Group#Brazil#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#French Guiana#Gene Flow#Genetics, Population#Genome-Wide Association Study#Haplotypes#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Suriname'
b'Although genetic correlations between complex traits provide valuable insights into epidemiological and etiological studies, a precise quantification of which genomic regions disproportionately contribute to the genome-wide correlation is currently lacking. Here, we introduce \xcf\x81-HESS, a technique to quantify the correlation between pairs of traits due to genetic variation at a small region in the genome. Our approach requires GWAS summary data only and makes no distributional assumption on the causal variant effect sizes while accounting for linkage disequilibrium (LD) and overlapping GWAS samples. We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary data across 36 quantitative traits, and identified 25 genomic regions that contribute significantly to the genetic correlation among these traits. Notably, we find 6 genomic regions that contribute to the genetic correlation of 10 pairs of traits that show negligible genome-wide correlation, further showcasing the power of local genetic correlation analyses. Finally, we report the distribution of local genetic correlations across the genome for 55 pairs of traits that show putative causal relationships. labels: #Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genomics#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Models, Genetic#Phenotype#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b'The increase in red blood cell mass (polycythemia) due to the reduced oxygen availability (hypoxia) of residence at high altitude or other conditions is generally thought to be beneficial in terms of increasing tissue oxygen supply. However, the extreme polycythemia and accompanying increased mortality due to heart failure in chronic mountain sickness most likely reduces fitness. Tibetan highlanders have adapted to high altitude, possibly in part via the selection of genetic variants associated with reduced polycythemic response to hypoxia. In contrast, high-altitude-adapted Quechua- and Aymara-speaking inhabitants of the Andean Altiplano are not protected from high-altitude polycythemia in the same way, yet they exhibit other adaptive features for which the genetic underpinnings remain obscure. Here, we used whole-genome sequencing to scan high-altitude Andeans for signals of selection. The genes showing the strongest evidence of selection-including BRINP3, NOS2, and TBX5-are associated with cardiovascular development and function but are not in the response-to-hypoxia pathway. Using association mapping, we demonstrated that the haplotypes under selection are associated with phenotypic variations related to cardiovascular health. We hypothesize that selection in response to hypoxia in Andeans could have vascular effects and could serve to mitigate the deleterious effects of polycythemia rather than reduce polycythemia itself. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Altitude#Altitude Sickness#Cardiovascular System#Female#Genome-Wide Association Study#Haplotypes#Heart Failure#Humans#Hypoxia#Male#Middle Aged#Polycythemia#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Selection, Genetic'
b'Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMK2) is one of the first proteins shown to be essential for normal learning and synaptic plasticity in mice, but its requirement for human brain development has not yet been established. Through a multi-center collaborative study based on a whole-exome sequencing approach, we identified 19 exceedingly rare de novo CAMK2A or CAMK2B variants in 24 unrelated individuals with intellectual disability. Variants were assessed for their effect on CAMK2 function and on neuronal migration. For both CAMK2A and CAMK2B, we identified mutations that decreased or increased CAMK2 auto-phosphorylation at Thr286/Thr287. We further found that all mutations affecting auto-phosphorylation also affected neuronal migration, highlighting the importance of tightly regulated CAMK2 auto-phosphorylation in neuronal function and neurodevelopment. Our data establish the importance of CAMK2A and CAMK2B and their auto-phosphorylation in human brain function and expand the phenotypic spectrum of the disorders caused by variants in key players of the glutamatergic signaling pathway. labels: #Animals#Brain#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Line#Exome#Female#Glutamic Acid#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mutation#Neurons#Phosphorylation#Signal Transduction'
b'Renal agenesis and hypodysplasia (RHD) are major causes of pediatric chronic kidney disease and are highly genetically heterogeneous. We conducted whole-exome sequencing in 202 case subjects with RHD and identified diagnostic mutations in genes known to be associated with RHD in 7/202 case subjects. In an additional affected individual with RHD and a congenital heart defect, we found a homozygous loss-of-function (LOF) variant in SLIT3, recapitulating phenotypes reported with Slit3 inactivation in the mouse. To identify genes associated with RHD, we performed an exome-wide association study with 195 unresolved case subjects and 6,905 control subjects. The top signal resided in GREB1L, a gene implicated previously in Hoxb1 and Shha signaling in zebrafish. The significance of the association, which was p = 2.0\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-5for novel LOF, increased to p = 4.1\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-6for LOF and deleterious missense variants combined, and augmented further after accounting for segregation and de novo inheritance of rare variants (joint p = 2.3\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-7). Finally, CRISPR/Cas9 disruption or knockdown of greb1l in zebrafish caused specific pronephric defects, which were rescued by wild-type human GREB1L mRNA, but not mRNA containing alleles identified in case subjects. Together, our study provides insight into the genetic landscape of kidney malformations in humans, presents multiple candidates, and identifies SLIT3 and GREB1L as genes implicated in the pathogenesis of RHD. labels: #Alleles#Animals#Case-Control Studies#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Congenital Abnormalities#Exome#Female#Genetic Heterogeneity#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genotype#Heredity#Homozygote#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Diseases#Male#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Phenotype#RNA, Long Noncoding#Urinary Tract#Urogenital Abnormalities#Zebrafish'
b'Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) constitute a major cause of chronic kidney disease in children and 20% of prenatally detected anomalies. CAKUT encompass a spectrum of developmental kidney defects, including renal agenesis, hypoplasia, and cystic and non-cystic dysplasia. More than 50 genes have been reported as mutated in CAKUT-affected case subjects. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to bilateral kidney agenesis (BKA) remain largely elusive. Whole-exome or targeted exome sequencing of 183 unrelated familial and/or severe CAKUT-affected case subjects, including 54 fetuses with BKA, led to the identification of 16 heterozygous variants in GREB1L (growth regulation by estrogen in breast cancer 1-like), a gene reported as a target of retinoic acid signaling. Four loss-of-function and 12 damaging missense variants, 14 being absent from GnomAD, were identified. Twelve of them were present in familial or simplex BKA-affected case subjects. Female BKA-affected fetuses also displayed uterus agenesis. We demonstrated a significant association between GREB1L variants and BKA. By in situ hybridization, we showed expression of Greb1l in the nephrogenic zone in developing mouse kidney. We generated a Greb1l knock-out mouse model by CRISPR-Cas9. Analysis at E13.5 revealed lack of kidneys and genital tract anomalies in male and female Greb1l-/-embryos and a slight decrease in ureteric bud branching in Greb1l+/-embryos. We showed that Greb1l invalidation in mIMCD3 cells affected tubulomorphogenesis in 3D-collagen culture, a phenotype rescued by expression of the wild-type human protein. This demonstrates that GREB1L plays a major role in early metanephros and genital development in mice and humans. labels: #Animals#Child#Congenital Abnormalities#Exome#Female#Fetus#Heterozygote#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Diseases#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Phenotype#Proteins#Urinary Tract#Urogenital Abnormalities'
b'Fibronectin is a master organizer of extracellular matrices (ECMs) and promotes the assembly of collagens, fibrillin-1, and other proteins. It is also known to play roles in skeletal tissues through its secretion by osteoblasts, chondrocytes, and mesenchymal cells. Spondylometaphyseal dysplasias (SMDs) comprise a diverse group of skeletal dysplasias and often manifest as short stature, growth-plate irregularities, and vertebral anomalies, such as scoliosis. By comparing the exomes of individuals with SMD with the radiographic appearance of "corner fractures" at metaphyses, we identified three individuals with fibronectin (FN1) variants affecting highly conserved residues. Furthermore, using matching tools and the SkelDys emailing list, we identified other individuals with de novo\xc2\xa0FN1 variants and a similar phenotype. The severe scoliosis in most individuals and rare developmental coxa vara distinguish individuals with FN1 mutations from those with classical Sutcliffe-type SMD. To study functional consequences of these FN1 mutations on the protein level, we introduced three disease-associated missense variants (p.Cys87Phe [c.260G>T], p.Tyr240Asp [c.718T>G], and p.Cys260Gly [c.778T>G]) into a recombinant secreted N-terminal 70\xc2\xa0kDa fragment (rF70K) and the full-length fibronectin (rFN). The wild-type rF70K and rFN were secreted into the culture medium, whereas all mutant proteins were either not secreted or secreted at significantly lower amounts. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated increased intracellular retention of the mutant proteins. In summary, FN1 mutations that cause defective fibronectin secretion are found in SMD, and we thus provide additional evidence for a critical function of fibronectin in cartilage and bone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Bone Diseases, Developmental#Bone and Bones#Cartilage#Child#Child, Preschool#Exome#Female#Fibronectins#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Mutation#Osteochondrodysplasias#Phenotype#Scoliosis'
b"Gorlin-Chaudhry-Moss syndrome (GCMS) is a dysmorphic syndrome characterized by coronal craniosynostosis and severe midface hypoplasia, body and facial hypertrichosis, microphthalmia, short stature, and short distal phalanges. Variable lipoatrophy and cutis laxa are the basis for a progeroid appearance. Using exome and genome sequencing, we identified the recurrent de novo mutations c.650G>A (p.Arg217His) and c.649C>T (p.Arg217Cys) in SLC25A24 in five unrelated girls diagnosed with GCMS. Two of the girls had pronounced neonatal progeroid features and were initially diagnosed with Wiedemann-Rautenstrauch syndrome. SLC25A24 encodes a mitochondrial inner membrane ATP-Mg/Picarrier. In fibroblasts from affected individuals, the mutated SLC25A24 showed normal stability. In contrast to control cells, the probands' cells showed mitochondrial swelling, which was exacerbated upon treatment with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). The same effect was observed after overexpression of the mutant cDNA. Under normal culture conditions, the mitochondrial membrane potential of the probands' fibroblasts was intact, whereas ATP content in the mitochondrial matrix was lower than that in control cells. However, upon H2O2exposure, the membrane potential was significantly elevated in cells harboring the mutated SLC25A24. No reduction of mitochondrial DNA copy number was observed. These findings demonstrate that mitochondrial dysfunction with increased sensitivity to oxidative stress is due to the SLC25A24 mutations. Our results suggest that the SLC25A24 mutations induce a gain of pathological function and link mitochondrial ATP-Mg/Pitransport to the development of skeletal and connective tissue. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Adenosine Triphosphate#Adolescent#Antiporters#Calcium-Binding Proteins#Child#Child, Preschool#Craniofacial Abnormalities#Craniosynostoses#Cutis Laxa#DNA, Mitochondrial#Ductus Arteriosus, Patent#Exome#Female#Fetal Growth Retardation#Fibroblasts#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Hypertrichosis#Infant#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Mutation#Oxidative Stress#Progeria"
b'A series of simplex cases have been reported under various diagnoses sharing early aging, especially evident in congenitally decreased subcutaneous fat tissue and sparse hair, bone dysplasia of the skull and fingers, a distinctive facial gestalt, and prenatal and postnatal growth retardation. For historical reasons, we suggest naming the entity Fontaine syndrome. Exome sequencing of four unrelated affected individuals showed that all carried the de novo missense variant c.649C>T (p.Arg217Cys) or c.650G>A (p.Arg217His) in SLC25A24, a solute carrier 25 family member coding for calcium-binding mitochondrial carrier protein (SCaMC-1, also known as SLC25A24). SLC25A24 allows an electro-neutral and reversible exchange of ATP-Mg and phosphate between the cytosol and mitochondria, which is required for maintaining optimal adenine nucleotide levels in the mitochondrial matrix. Molecular dynamic simulation studies predict that p.Arg217Cys and p.Arg217His narrow the substrate cavity of the protein and disrupt transporter dynamics. SLC25A24-mutant fibroblasts and cells expressing p.Arg217Cys or p.Arg217His variants showed altered mitochondrial morphology, a decreased proliferation rate, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, and decreased ATP-linked mitochondrial oxygen consumption. The results suggest that the SLC25A24 mutations lead to impaired mitochondrial ATP synthesis and cause hyperpolarization and increased proton leak in association with an impaired energy metabolism. Our findings identify SLC25A24 mutations affecting codon 217 as the underlying genetic cause of human progeroid Fontaine syndrome. labels: #Adenine#Adenosine Triphosphate#Aging#Antiporters#Bone Diseases, Developmental#Calcium-Binding Proteins#Cytosol#Female#Fetal Death#Fibroblasts#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Mutation#Oxygen#Phosphates#Syndrome'
b'Approximately one in every 200 mammalian proteins is anchored to the cell membrane through a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. These proteins play important roles notably in neurological development and function. To date, more than 20 genes have been implicated in the biogenesis of GPI-anchored proteins. GPAA1 (glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1) is an essential component of the transamidase complex along with PIGK, PIGS, PIGT, and PIGU (phosphatidylinositol-glycan biosynthesis classes K, S, T, and U, respectively). This complex orchestrates the attachment of the GPI anchor to the C terminus of precursor proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Here, we report bi-allelic mutations in GPAA1 in ten individuals from five families. Using whole-exome sequencing, we identified two frameshift mutations (c.981_993del [p.Gln327Hisfs\xe2\x88\x97102] and c.920delG [p.Gly307Alafs\xe2\x88\x9711]), one intronic splicing mutation (c.1164+5C>T), and six missense mutations (c.152C>T [p.Ser51Leu], c.160_161delinsAA [p.Ala54Asn], c.527G>C [p.Trp176Ser], c.869T>C [p.Leu290Pro], c.872T>C [p.Leu291Pro], and c.1165G>C [p.Ala389Pro]). Most individuals presented with global developmental delay, hypotonia, early-onset seizures, cerebellar atrophy, and osteopenia. The splicing mutation was found to decrease GPAA1 mRNA. Moreover, flow-cytometry analysis of five available individual samples showed that several GPI-anchored proteins had decreased cell-surface abundance in leukocytes (FLAER, CD16, and CD59) or fibroblasts (CD73 and CD109). Transduction of fibroblasts with a lentivirus encoding the wild-type protein partially rescued the deficiency of GPI-anchored proteins. These findings highlight the role of the transamidase complex in the development and function of the cerebellum and the skeletal system. labels: #Acyltransferases#Adolescent#Adult#Alleles#Atrophy#Bone Diseases, Metabolic#Cerebellum#Child#Child, Preschool#Developmental Disabilities#Epilepsy#Exome#Female#Fibroblasts#Glycosylphosphatidylinositols#Humans#Male#Membrane Glycoproteins#Muscle Hypotonia#Mutation#Pedigree#RNA, Messenger#Seizures'
b'INTRODUCTION: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is featured with the biological properties of strong aggressive behaviors, rapid disease progression, high risk of recurrence and metastasis, and low disease free survival. Patients with this tumor are insensitive to the endocrine therapy and target treatment for HER-2; therefore, chemotherapy is often used as routine treatment in clinical. Because of the fact that a considerable number of patients seek for Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) treatment after operation and chemotherapy and (or) radiotherapy, it is thus need to evaluate the correlation between Chinese herbal medicine treatment and prognosis.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a multicenter, prospective cohort study started in March 2016 in Beijing. A simple of 220 participants diagnosed with TNBC were recruited from nine hospitals and are followed up every 3 to 6 months till March 2020. Detailed information of participants includes personal information, history of cancer, quality of life, symptoms of traditional Chinese medicine and fatigue status is taken face-to-face at baseline.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has received ethical approval from the Research Ethical Committee of Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine affiliated to Capital Medical University (No.2016BL-014-01). Articles summarizing the primary results and ancillary analyses will be published in peer-reviewed journals.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry: ChiCTR-OOC-16008246. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Clinical Protocols#Combined Modality Therapy#Drugs, Chinese Herbal#Female#Humans#Medicine, Chinese Traditional#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Quality of Life#Treatment Outcome#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the risk factors of wound infection after open reduction and internal fixation of calcaneal fractures.In all, 299 patients with 318 calcaneal fractures who underwent open reduction and internal fixation by a single surgeon were grouped according to different outcomes. We gathered the data on each patient including sex, age, injury mechanism, body mass index (BMI), time to operation, fracture type, associated injuries, treatment course, tourniquet time, blood loss, bone graft (yes or no), diabetes (yes or no), smoking history, and complications. Univariate analysis and multivariable analysis were used to determine the association between risk factors and wound infection.Patients who met the entry criteria included 267 males and 32 females with a mean age of 38.6 years. Among them, 5.3% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17) suffered wound infection, and all of the wounds healed after different treatments. According to the univariate analysis, the patients who developed wound infections were active smokers, more obese (higher BMI), had a longer time from injury to operation, and longer tourniquet time. Multivariate analysis indicated that a higher BMI, delayed operation, and active smoking were independent risk factors for wound infection after open reduction and internal fixation of calcaneal fractures.Patients with calcaneal fractures who were smokers and had a higher BMI had a high risk of wound infections. We suggested that surgeons wait to operate until swellings of the injured foot improved, and we also suggested the operation should be within 14 days after the injury. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Calcaneus#Female#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Obesity#Open Fracture Reduction#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Smoking#Surgical Wound Infection#Time Factors#Time-to-Treatment#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: This randomized clinical trial (October 2012-December 2013) compared extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) and a vacuum erectile device (VED) for management of erectile dysfunction (ED).METHODS: Consecutive Chinese patients (20-55 years) with ED, abnormal nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity (NPTR), and international index of erectile function-5 items (IIEF-5) score<22 were randomized to receive ESWT or VED (twice weekly, 4 weeks). Primary outcomes were treatment efficacy and success rate 4 weeks after completion of therapy. Secondary outcomes included changes in IIEF-5 score, sex encounter profile (SEP) score, erection hardness score (EHS) and NPTR assessments 4 weeks post-therapy. All enrolled patients (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a30 per group) completed the study. At baseline, age, IIEF-5 score, SEP score, EHS, and NPTR assessments were similar between groups.RESULTS: Four weeks post-therapy, IIEF-5 score increased in the ESWT (15.03\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.00 vs. 11.60\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.28) and VED (15.10\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.06 vs. 11.53\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.27) groups, as did SEP score, EHS, and NPTR measures (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Efficacy in the ESWT and VED groups was excellent in 10% and 13.3%, respectively, and moderate in 63.3% and 53.3%, respectively. Treatment success rate in the ESWT and VED groups was 73.3% and 67.7%, respectively.CONCLUSION: VED use and ESWT have comparable efficacies in the treatment of ED in Chinese patients. labels: #Adult#China#Erectile Dysfunction#High-Energy Shock Waves#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Penile Erection#Prospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Treatment Outcome#Vacuum#Young Adult'
b'Our study aimed to evaluate the utility of muscle ultrasound in newborn screening of infantile-onset Pompe disease (IOPD) and to establish a system of severity grading. We retrospectively selected 35 patients with initial low acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA) activity and collected data including muscle ultrasound features, GAA gene mutation, activity/performance, and pathological and laboratory findings. The echogenicity of 6 muscles (the bilateral vastus intermedius, rectus femoris, and sartorius muscles) was compared to that of epimysium on ultrasound and rated either 1 (normal), 2 (mildly increased), or 3 (obviously increased). These grades were used to divide patients into 3 groups. IOPD was present in none of the grade-1 patients, 5 of 9 grade-2 patients, and 5 of 5 grade-3 patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Comparing grade-2 plus grade-3 patients to grade-1 patients, muscle ultrasound detected IOPD with a sensitivity and specificity of 100.0% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 69.2%-100%) and 84.0% (95% CI: 63.9%-95.5%), respectively. The mean number of affected muscles was larger in grade-3 patients than in grade-2 patients (4.2 vs. 2.0, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.005). Mean alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), creatine kinase (CK), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels were differed significantly different between grade-3 and grade-1 patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Because it permits direct visualization of injured muscles, muscle ultrasound can be used to screen for IOPD. Our echogenicity grades of muscle injury also correlate well with serum levels of muscle-injury biochemical markers. labels: #Alanine Transaminase#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Biomarkers#Creatine Kinase#Female#Glycogen Storage Disease Type II#Humans#Infant, Newborn#L-Lactate Dehydrogenase#Male#Neonatal Screening#Quadriceps Muscle#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Ultrasonography#alpha-Glucosidases'
b'To explore the relationship between the extent of central nervous system (CNS) injury and patient outcomes meanwhile research the potential risk factors associated with neurologic sequelae. In this retrospective cohort study, we analyzed data from 117 consecutive patients (86 survivors, 31 nonsurvivors) with exertional heat stroke (EHS) who had been admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) at 48 Chinese hospitals between April 2003 and July 2015. Extent of CNS injury was dichotomized according to Glasgow coma scale (GCS) score (severe 3-8, not severe 9-15). We then assessed differences in hospital mortality based on the extent of CNS injury by comparing 90-day survival time between the patient groups. Exploring the risk factors of neurologic sequelae. The primary outcomewas the 90-day survival ratewhich differed between the 2 groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.023). The incidence of neurologic sequelae was 24.4%. For its risk factors, duration of recurrent hyperthermia (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.73, 95% CI: 1.20-2.49, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003), duration of CNS injury (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.39, 95% CI: 1.04-1.85, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025), and low GCS in the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours after admission (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.39, 95% CI: 1.11-5.15, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025) were selected by multivariable logistic regression. Cooling effect was eliminated as a factor (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2641.27, 95% CI 0.40-1.73_107, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.079). Significant differences in 90-day survival ratewere observed based on the extent of CNS injury in patients with EHS, and incidence was 24.4% for neurologic sequelae. Duration of recurrent hyperthermia, duration of CNS injury, and low GCS score in the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours following admission may be independent risk factors of neurologic sequelae. Cooling effect should be validated in the further studies. labels: #Adult#Female#Fever#Glasgow Coma Scale#Heat Stroke#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Incidence#Intensive Care Units#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Physical Exertion#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Trauma, Nervous System#Young Adult'
b'Although subjective global assessment (SGA) is a widely used tool for nutritional investigation, the scores are dependent on the inspectors\' subjective opinions, and there are only few studies that directly assessed the usefulness of SGA and modified SGA in incident peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients. A total of 365 incident PD patients between 2009 and 2015 were enrolled and measured with SGA and calculated using serum albumin and total iron binding capacity (TIBC) levels for weighted SGA. Cox analyses were performed to delineate the association between SGA or weighted SGA and all-cause mortality, and a receiver-operating characteristic was conducted to reveal the additional benefit of weighted SGA on predicting adverse clinical outcomes. The Kaplan-Meier curve showed that the cumulative survival rate in patients with "Good nutrition" (G1) was significantly higher compared to those with "Mild to severe malnutrition" (G2). G2 was significantly associated with an increase in the mortality even after adjusting for several covariates compared with G1. Moreover, a 1-unit increase in weighted SGA was also significantly correlated with mortality after adjustment of the same covariates, while G2 was not significantly associated with an increase in the mortality among young-aged (under 65 years) groups. Meanwhile, a 1-unit increase in weighted SGA was significantly related to an increase in mortality in all the subgroup analyses. Furthermore, the AUCs of weighted SGAs in all groups were significantly increased compared with those of SGA alone. In conclusions, the evaluation of nutritional status based on SGA in incident PD patients might be useful for predicting mortality. However, weighted SGA with serum albumin and TIBC can provide additional predictive power for mortality compared with SGA alone in incident PD patients. labels: #Adult#Aged#Female#Humans#Iron#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Male#Malnutrition#Middle Aged#Nutrition Assessment#Nutritional Status#Peritoneal Dialysis#Predictive Value of Tests#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Regression Analysis#Serum Albumin#Survival Rate'
b'INTRODUCTION: We present a rarely seen case of cerebral infarction due to intracranial dolichoectasia coexisting with spontaneous dissection of the basilar artery. A definition of dolichoectasia, its pathology, and imaging findings, as well as the clinical management and prognosis are briefly reviewed.CONCLUSION: We discuss in general terms the diagnosis of basilar artery dissection and its probable relationship with the occurrence of dolichoectasia. labels: #Basilar Artery#Cerebral Infarction#Humans#Intracranial Arterial Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Vertebral Artery Dissection#Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency'
b'Pneumonia is a leading cause of hospitalization and mortality worldwide. Despite recognition of the importance of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adults, limited epidemiologic information is available in South Korea. This study aimed to evaluate the disease burden of hospitalized CAP in adults aged \xe2\x89\xa519 years and its epidemiologic trend using Health Insurance and Review Assessment (HIRA) data.This is a retrospective study using the HIRA database from year 2009 to 2013. We estimated the incidence rate and direct medical cost of hospitalized CAP in adults aged \xe2\x89\xa519 years in South Korea. These were further analyzed with respect to age and underlying medical conditions.During 2009 to 2013, 1216,916 hospitalizations were recorded. On average, the annual age-adjusted incidence rate of hospitalized CAP was 626 per 100,000 persons, with the rate increasing with age. When stratified by age- and risk groups, elderly people \xe2\x89\xa575 years showed the highest incidence rate of hospitalized CAP over 5-year study periods. With respect to the risk groups based on underlying medical conditions, incidence rate ratios were 2.04 to 5.86 for the high-risk group versus the low-risk group and 1.28 to 5.49 for the moderate-risk group versus the low-risk group. Overall, mean direct medical cost for hospitalized CAP was 1851 USD per capita during the 5-year period: 1263 USD in the low-risk group, 2353 USD in the moderate-risk group, and 2841 USD in the high-risk group.This study shows that the incidence and medical cost of hospitalized CAP were consistently high over the 5-year study period. In particular, elderly people and adults with underlying medical conditions were at increased risk for hospitalized CAP. labels: #Adult#Age Distribution#Age Factors#Community-Acquired Infections#Cost of Illness#Databases, Factual#Female#Health Care Costs#Hospitalization#Humans#Incidence#Insurance, Health#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonia#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is highly sensitive to radiotherapy. Locally advanced NPC has a relatively poor prognosis if treated with radiotherapy alone. Several studies have demonstrated that chemoradiotherapy confers survival benefit in locally advanced NPC. However, a small proportion of patients are resistant to chemotherapy based on cisplatin. So, it is important to make a valuable and inexpensive schedule for these patients. After 2 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy that consisted of gemcitabine and cisplatin (80\xe2\x80\x8amg/m, every 3 weeks) or paclitaxel and cisplatin (80\xe2\x80\x8amg/m, every 3 weeks), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to evaluate efficacy. A total of 13 patients with extensive nodal disease or/and bulky tumors volume were determined with a stable disease (SD) and enrolled in this study. Cisplatin at a dose of 30\xe2\x80\x8amg/m administered weekly concurrent with intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) was used to treat these patients resistant to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The efficacy was evaluated by tumor response and the change of tumor volume. After the completion of concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT), the overall tumor response was a complete response (CR) for 4 of 13 (30.8%) patients and partial response (PR) for 9 of 13 (69.2%) patients. The mean primary tumor volume was reduced by 59.7% and 89.8% at the 24th fraction of IMRT and after the completion of IMRT, respectively. The mean nodal volume was reduced by 63.8% and 93.5% at the 24th fraction of IMRT and after completion of IMRT, respectively. The study showed that weekly cisplatin concurrent with IMRT improved the treatment parameters for locally advanced NPC with resistance to neoadjuvant chemotherapy based on cisplatin. It was a valuable and relatively inexpensive schedule to improve the prognosis for these patients. labels: #Adult#Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms#Prognosis#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Tumor Burden'
b"After age 85, upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy may be indicated in 5% to 10% of inpatients, but the risk-benefit ratio is unknown. We studied patients older than 85 years undergoing upper and lower GI endoscopy.We analyzed a retrospective cohort of inpatients older than 85 years between 2004 and 2012, all explored by upper and complete lower GI endoscopy. Initial indications, including iron deficiency anemia (IDA), other anemias, GI bleeding, weight loss, and GI symptoms, were noted, as were endoscopy or anesthesia complications, immediate endoscopic diagnosis, and the ability to modify the patients' therapeutics. Deaths and final diagnosis for initial endoscopic indication were analyzed after at least 12 months.We included 55 patients, 78% women, with a median age, reticulocyte count, hemoglobin, and ferritin levels of 87 (85-99), 56 (24-214) g/L, 8.6 (4.8-12.9) g/dL, and 56 (3-799) \xce\xbcg/L, respectively. IDA was the most frequent indication for endoscopy (60%; n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33). Immediate diagnoses were found in 64% of the patients (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a35), including 25% with GI cancers (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a14) and 22% with gastroduodenal ulcers or erosions (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12). Cancer diagnosis was associated with lower reticulocyte count (45 vs. 60\xe2\x80\x8aG/L; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02). Among the 35 diagnoses, 94% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) led to modifications of the patients' therapeutics, with 29% of the patients deciding on palliative care (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a10). No endoscopic complications lead to death. Follow-up of>12 months was available in 82% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a45) of the patients; among these patients, 40% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a27) died after an average 24\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18 months. Cancer diagnosis was significantly associated with less ulterior red cell transfusion (0% vs. 28%; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02) and fewer further investigations (6.7% vs. 40%; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02).Upper and complete lower GI endoscopy in patients older than 85 years appears to be safe, and enables a high rate of immediate diagnosis, with significant modifications of therapeutics. GI cancers represented more than one-third of the endoscopic diagnoses. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Anemia, Iron-Deficiency#Endoscopy, Gastrointestinal#Female#Gastrointestinal Diseases#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Gastrointestinal Neoplasms#Geriatric Assessment#Humans#Inpatients#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Odds Ratio#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment"
b'Emergency air medical transport (EAMT) is indispensable for acutely or critically ill patients in remote areas. We determined patient-level and transport-specific factors associated with all-cause mortality after EAMT.We conducted a population-based, retrospective cohort study using a prospective registry consisting of clinical/medical records. Study inclusion criteria consisted of all adults undergoing EAMT from Kinmen hospital to the ED of Taipei Veterans General Hospital (TVGH) between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2012. The primary outcome assessments were 7-day and 30-day mortality.A total of 370 patients transported to TVGH were enrolled in the study with a mean age of 54.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a21.5 (SD) years and with a male predominance (71.6%). The average in-transit time was 1.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.4\xe2\x80\x8ahours. The 7-day, 30-day, and in-hospital mortality rates were 10.3%, 14.1%, and 14.9%. Among them 33.5% (124/370) were categorized under neurological etiologies, whereas 24.9% (90/370) cardiovascular, followed by 16.2% (60/370) trauma patients. Independent predictors associated with 7-day all-cause mortality were age (odds ratio [OR] 1.043, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.016-1.070), Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) (OR 0.730, 95% CI 0.650-0.821), and hematocrit level (OR 0.930, 95% CI 0.878-0.985). Independent predictors associated with 30-day all-cause mortality were age (OR 1.028, 95% CI 1.007-1.049), GCS (OR 0.686, 95% CI 0.600-0.785), hematocrit (OR 0.940, 95% CI 0.895-0.988), hemodynamic instability (OR 5.088 95% CI 1.769-14.635), and endotracheal intubation (OR 0.131 95% CI 0.030-0.569). The 7-day and 30-day mortality were not significantly related to transport-specific factors, such as length of flight, type of paramedic crew on board, or day and season of transport. Clinical patient-level factors, as opposed to transport-level factors, were associated with 7- and 30-day all-cause mortality in patients undergoing interfacility EAMT from Kinmen to Taiwan. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Air Ambulances#Cause of Death#Critical Illness#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intubation, Intratracheal#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Prospective Studies#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Taiwan#Time Factors#Transportation of Patients'
b'Early estimation of mortality risk in patients with trauma is essential. In this study, we evaluate the validity of the Emergency Trauma Score (EMTRAS) and Rapid Emergency Medicine Score (REMS) for predicting in-hospital mortality in patients with trauma. Furthermore, we compared the REMS and the EMTRAS with 2 other scoring systems: the Revised Trauma Score (RTS) and Injury Severity score (ISS).We performed a retrospective chart review of 6905 patients with trauma reported between July 2011 and June 2016 at a large national university hospital in South Korea. We analyzed the associations between patient characteristics, treatment course, and injury severity scoring systems (ISS, RTS, EMTRAS, and REMS) with in-hospital mortality. Discriminating power was compared between scoring systems using the areas under the curve (AUC) of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 3.1%. Higher EMTRAS and REMS scores were associated with hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The ROC curve demonstrated adequate discrimination (AUC = 0.957 for EMTRAS and 0.9 for REMS). After performing AUC analysis followed by Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons, EMTRAS was significantly superior to REMS and ISS in predicting in-hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but not significantly different from the RTS (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.057). The other scoring systems were not significantly different from each other.The EMTRAS and the REMS are simple, accurate predictors of in-hospital mortality in patients with trauma. labels: #Adult#Aged#Area Under Curve#Emergency Medicine#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Trauma Severity Indices#Wounds and Injuries'
b'Several risk factors for pancreatic fistula had been widely reported, but there was no research focusing on the exocrine output of remnant gland.During the study period of January 2015 to September 2016, 82 patients accepted pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD, end-to-end dunking pancreaticojejunostomy with internal stent tube). All the data were collected, including preoperative medical status, operative course, final pathology, gland texture, pancreatic duct diameter, size of the stent, length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube, width of the pancreatic stump, diameter of the jejunum and the status of postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF). POPF was defined according to International Study Group of Pancreatic Fistula criteria.The diameter of pancreatic duct in the POPF group was significantly smaller than that in the group without POPF (1.99 vs 2.90\xe2\x80\x8amm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). The length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube in the POPF group was significantly longer than that in the group without POPF (18.04 vs 6.92\xe2\x80\x8acm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.014). There were more pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cases and hard glands in the group without POPF. The length of pancreatic juice in the clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) group was significantly longer than that in the grade A group (32.4 vs 9.21\xe2\x80\x8acm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). Multivariate analysis identified gland texture and length of pancreatic juice as independent predictors for pancreatic fistula. Multivariate analysis also identified the length of pancreatic juice as an independent predictor for CR-POPF.The length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube might be a useful predictive factor of POPF after PD, especially for CR-POPF. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#Humans#Jejunum#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Pancreas#Pancreas, Exocrine#Pancreatic Fistula#Pancreatic Juice#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Pancreaticoduodenectomy#Pancreaticojejunostomy#Postoperative Complications#Postoperative Period#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Stents#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'The initial diagnosis of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy is based on nervous system clinical manifestations. The use of biomarkers to monitor brain injury and evaluate neuroprotective effects allows early intervention and treatment. This study was designed to determine the short-term prognostic significance of urinary S100B calcium-binding protein (S100B) in asphyxiated newborns treated with hypothermia.An observational prospective study was conducted over a period of 5 years in 31 newborns with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy who received therapeutic hypothermia. The patients were divided into 2 groups: Group A (13 newborns with a normal neurological examination before discharge) and Group B (18 newborns who died during admission or had an abnormal neurologic examination before discharge). Urinary S100B was the main variable, serum S100B and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) were considered as secondary variables, and all of them were assessed on the first 3 days of life. The newborns were subsequently divided into groups with normal and abnormal electrophysiological and imaging findings.Mean urinary S100B levels were significantly higher in group B than group A on day 1 (10.58\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a14.82 vs 4.65\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.16\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.031) and day 2 (5.16\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.63 vs 0.88\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.53, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002). The optimal cutoff for urinary S100B on day 1 was>1.11\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L of (sensitivity, 100%; specificity 60%) for the prediction of neonatal death and\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.66\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L (sensitivity 83% and specificity 70%) for the prediction of a normal neurological examination before discharge. It was not possible to calculate cutoffs with a similar accuracy for serum S100B or NSE. Urinary S100B on day 1 was higher in patients with abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings (7.89\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.09 vs 4.49\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.14, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.039) and abnormal positron emission tomography findings (8.60\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.29 vs 4.30\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.28, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). There were no significant differences in S100B levels between patients with normal and abnormal electroencephalography results.Urinary S100B measured in the first days of life can predict neonatal death and short-term prognosis in asphyxiated newborns treated with hypothermia. The method is convenient, noninvasive, and has a higher sensitivity and specificity than measurement of serum S100B or NSE. labels: #Biomarkers#Electroencephalography#Female#Humans#Hypothermia, Induced#Hypoxia-Ischemia, Brain#Infant, Newborn#Male#Neurologic Examination#Perinatal Death#Phosphopyruvate Hydratase#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#S100 Calcium Binding Protein beta Subunit#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'High viral load is an independent risk factor for development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Antiviral therapy can reduce but not eliminate the risk of HCC. The aim of this study was to identify the risk factors for HCC development in CHB patients during antiviral therapy.CHB patients with HBV DNA level \xe2\x89\xa510\xe2\x80\x8acopies/mL, with or without compensated cirrhosis receiving adefovir were followed up every 6 months for 10 years (2004-2014). The primary endpoint was the development of HCC. The cumulative incidence and risk factors of HCC were evaluated by the Kaplan-Meier method and multivariate Cox proportional hazards models.At baseline, 28 of the 120 patients (23.3%) were cirrhotic. One patient developed HCC within 1 year, and therefore 119 patients were analyzed. At the end-point of follow-up, 59.7% (71/119) patients achieved virological remission (VR). Overall, 16 patients developed HCC, giving a 10-year cumulative incidence of 15.73%. Multivariate analysis showed that cirrhosis at baseline and failure to achieve VR were significant risk factors for HCC. The 10-year incidence of HCC was significantly higher in cirrhotic than noncirrhotic patients (43.16% vs. 7.05%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001). For cirrhotic patients, the 10-year incidence of HCC was significantly higher in patients without VR than those with VR (62.24% vs. 27.78%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0139).Cirrhosis at baseline and failure to achieve VR during antiviral therapy were significant risk factors for HCC development in CHB patients. Effective viral suppression is necessary to reduce HCC development in cirrhotic CHB patients. labels: #Adenine#Adult#Antiviral Agents#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hepatitis B virus#Hepatitis B, Chronic#Humans#Incidence#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Liver Cirrhosis#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Organophosphonates#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sustained Virologic Response#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Viral Load'
b'RATIONALE: Salmonella enterica subsp arizonae is a common gut inhabitant of reptiles (snakes are the most common reservoir, but it also occurs in turtles). Alhough human cases owing to this organism are exceedingly rare, it may occasionally infect young infants and immunocompromised individuals with a history of intimate associations with reptiles. Our case is the 20th one among the infections with S arizonae in children, but the 2nd one of otitis and the first of mastoiditis. The other cases had different anatomical locations, such as gastroenteritis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, ankle infection, wound infection, and sinusitis.PATIENT CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSIS: We report a rare case of otitis with Salmonella in a previously healthy adolescent, which was most likely acquired after bathing in a lake. The ear infection was complicated with mastoiditis. Audiometric testing showed a moderately conductive hearing loss (60\xe2\x80\x8adB on pure-tone average).INTERVENTION: Standard therapy for S arizonae was initiated. The surgery revealed a "hidden" cholesteatoma. Surgical management comprised of canal wall up mastoidectomy with attico-antrotomy and posterior tympanotomy followed by tympanoplasty.OUTCOMES: Daily postoperative dressing care of the incision, along with antibiotic lavage of the external auditory canal packing, ensured a favorable evolution. The functional gain was important; the 1-month postsurgical pure tone audiogram indicated nearly normal hearing (a mean of 25\xe2\x80\x8adB for air conduction thresholds).LESSON: Salmonella enterica serotype arizonae is a rare cause of human infection, being a common organism in reptiles, like snakes and turtles. Young children are at a particular risk for acquiring such infections. Our study might encourage further epidemiologic investigations into these infections to generate a more effective strategy among public health agencies. labels: #Adolescent#Humans#Lakes#Male#Mastoiditis#Otitis Media#Salmonella Infections#Salmonella arizonae'
b'Crowding in emergency departments (EDs) is associated with long lengths of stay (LOS); however, it is not known whether the effect is equal across different chief complaints.The aim of the study was to compare the effect of crowding on LOS in the 10 most common medical or surgical chief complaints in the ED.All adult visits to a university hospital ED on weekdays between 8 AM and 9 PM in 2012 (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a19,200) were stratified based on chief complaint and triage priority. The ED bed occupancy rate was measured and crowding was defined as an occupancy rate over one. The impact of crowding on LOS was calculated for the different groups.During crowding, LOS was longer among all chief complaints (P \xe2\x89\xa4.01) (except for high-acuity patients with wounds, where the study group was very small). During crowding, LOS increased the most among patients with extremity pain/swelling (145% among high-acuity patients, 125% among low-acuity patients) and flank pain (87% among high-acuity patients, 117% among low-acuity patients) and the least among patients with chest pain (32% among high-acuity patients, 45% among low-acuity patients) or arrhythmia (37% among high-acuity patients, 52% among low-acuity patients).The effect of ED crowding on LOS is unequal across different chief complaints. These findings could be used to improve the processing of specific chief complaints in the ED. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cohort Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Crowding#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Hospitals, University#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Acuity#Time Factors#Triage#Young Adult'
b'This study aimed to observe the change in nonhigh-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) levels and analyzed its related factors in adults with prediabetes (impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance).This case-controlled study included 56 adults with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) and 74 adults with prediabetes. The cases and controls were age and gender-matched. Anthropometric measurements including height, weight, waist circumference, and blood pressure were performed. All patients underwent an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) after 8 hours of fasting, and the levels of glucose, insulin, lipids, and uric acid were measured.The levels of non-HDL-C (3.63\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.92 vs 3.27\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.00\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L) were significantly higher in prediabetic subjects than in NGT subjects (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Non-HDL-C positively correlated with HOMA-IR (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.253, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), triglyceride (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.204, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.020), and uric acid (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.487, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). After multivariate analysis, uric acid continued to be significantly associated with non-HDL-C (\xce\xb2\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.006, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000).Non-HDL-C is elevated in adults with prediabetes. A relationship between non-HDL-C and uric acid was observed. labels: #Adult#Anthropometry#Blood Glucose#Blood Pressure#Body Height#Body Weight#Case-Control Studies#Cholesterol#Fasting#Female#Glucose Intolerance#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Insulin#Lipids#Lipoproteins#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Prediabetic State#Uric Acid#Waist Circumference'
b'PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to explore surgical strategies for effectively treating spine fractures in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and investigate the postoperative outcomes.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 9 patients with AS that was complicated by spine fractures, who underwent surgery at our spine and spinal cord clinic between 2005 and 2012. The surgical methods included posterior instrumentation and bone grafting, with or without decompression. Fracture healing and neurological function recovery were observed postoperatively. The average follow-up period was 45.1 months (range: 24-60).RESULTS: The 9 patients included 7 men and 2 women. Eight patients were treated with long posterior fixation. One patient underwent combined long posterior fixation and anterior bone grafting. The neurological function of these patients improved significantly to varying degrees after surgery, and fracture union and segmental instability of the lumbar vertebrae were radiologically confirmed at the 1-month and 2-year follow-up intervals. Severe surgery-related complications were not observed.CONCLUSIONS: Posterior instrumentation with bone grafting was a satisfying method for treating spine fractures in patients with AS. labels: #Adult#Bone Transplantation#Combined Modality Therapy#Decompression, Surgical#Female#Fracture Fixation#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Spinal Fractures#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Treatment Outcome'
b'Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Due to the poor prognosis for patients not responding to first-line steroids treatment, improvements in aGVHD therapy are needed. Everolimus is a promising candidate that combines immunosuppressive properties with anti-neoplastic effects. Here, we retrospectively reviewed the efficacy of everolimus with steroids as primary treatment in 13 patients with grade II to grade IV aGVHD after HSCT. Among them, 12 (92.3%) had complete response to everolimus with steroids without additional immunosuppressive agents. The median duration of therapy was 76 days (range 20-110). Asymptomatic hypertriglyceridemia was the most common therapy complication (69.2%), but treatment interruption was not needed. Thrombotic microangiopathy was rare (7.7%), but can be quickly solved by stopping everolimus and cyclosporine treatment. Other toxicities were manageable. Two patients developed chronic GVHD (15.4%), limited in one and extensive in the other. The overall survival was 76.9% with a median follow-up of 3.4 years after HSCT (range 0.7-5.7). Accordingly, everolimus with steroids were feasible for patients with aGVHD after HSCT as primary treatment. Further large-scale studies are required. labels: #Acute Disease#Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#Cyclosporine#Drug Therapy, Combination#Everolimus#Feasibility Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Graft vs Host Disease#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Hypertriglyceridemia#Immunosuppressive Agents#Infant#Male#Pilot Projects#Retrospective Studies#Steroids#Thrombotic Microangiopathies#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: We investigated the sudden onset of static equilibrium dysfunction caused by cochlear implantation (CI) in congenital hearing loss patients.METHOD: Twenty-five patients were selected from a cohort of unilateral CI recipients to form the CI group. Static posturography was performed 1 to 3 days before and 3 to 5 days after CI. Each patient underwent the test with eyes open (EO) and eyes closed (EC) for 30\xe2\x80\x8aseconds, separately. Another group of age- and sex-matched patients with no history of hearing impairment undergoing unrelated surgeries formed the control group, and were examined with the same tests pre- and post-surgery. A third group of patients undergoing middle ear surgery formed the otitis media (OM) group. Postural sway parameters including sway velocity (SV) in the X-axis, SV in the Y-axis, length of sway locus length (LNG), and environmental area (ENV) were measured and recorded.RESULTS: Comparison of pre-surgery posturographical parameters between the CI and control groups revealed no significant differences. Significant differences were found in most parameters in pre- and post-surgery comparisons in the CI group. Mean SV values in the X-axis pre- and post-surgery were 8.48 and 11.52\xe2\x80\x8amm/s, respectively, in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), and 14.94 and 20.16\xe2\x80\x8amm/s, respectively, in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). In the Y-axis, mean SV values were 15.36 and 20.24\xe2\x80\x8amm/s pre- and post-surgery, respectively, in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The LNG values in the CI group pre- and post-surgery were 319.60 and 469.88\xe2\x80\x8amm in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), and 571.40 and 764.12\xe2\x80\x8amm in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). No significant functional equilibrium change was observed in the control group between pre- and post-surgery (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05) except SV in the X-axis and LNG in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). No significant pre- and post-surgery differences were found in the OM group.CONCLUSION: CI appeared to influence static equilibrium function within 1 week post-surgery. This influence was greater when eyes were closed. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Child#Cochlear Implantation#Cochlear Implants#Female#Hearing Loss#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postural Balance#Sensation Disorders#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: The fundamental pathogenesis of Beh\xc3\xa7et disease (BD) is still unclear and controversial. Many cases of oral aphthous ulcers and genital ulcers related to BD are reported; nevertheless, idiopathic giant esophageal ulcers related to BD are rare. A rare case for esophageal ulcers related to BD is presented.PATIENT CONCERNS: In China, BD is represented with esophageal involvement which is called esophageal BD (EBD).DIAGNOSES: A 56-year-old man diagnosed to the Gastroenterology Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine Hospital, for multiple discrete, elliptical esophageal ulcers related to BD.INTERVENTIONS: The esophageal ulcers were treated with corticosteroid treatment for 12 weeks.OUTCOME: The esophageal ulcers were cured.LESSONS: Our report might give further strength to avoiding the erroneous diagnosis or missed diagnosis for EBD, which is different from esophageal carcinoma, esophageal tuberculosis and esophageal Crohns disease. labels: #Adrenal Cortex Hormones#Behcet Syndrome#Esophageal Diseases#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Rare Diseases#Treatment Outcome#Ulcer'
b'RATIONALE: The multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as cediranib, sunitinib and pazopanib have been reported to be effective for alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS). The efficacy of pazopanib for the patient with lingual ASPS has yet to be reported.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 23-year old man presented with articulation disorder and swelling of the tongue. Diagnosis of lingual ASPS was made after incisional biopsy and complete excision of the mass was performed. Three months later, he presented with a protruding mental region.DIAGNOSES: Computed tomography revealed mental region mass and lung metastasis.INTERVENTIONS: After the failure of combination therapy of doxorubicin and ifosfamide, pazopanib was administered.OUTCOMES: Shrinkage of both the mental region and lung mass continued for more than two months, but regrowth was confirmed at the fourth month.LESSONS: Lingual ASPS is an exceedingly rare subset of ASPS with distinct molecular and histological characteristics and appropriate therapy remains to be established. Our findings suggest a possible therapeutic strategy for lingual ASPS. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Humans#Male#Pyrimidines#Sarcoma, Alveolar Soft Part#Sulfonamides#Tongue Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: Spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma (SSEH) is a relatively rare but potentially disabling disease, and the classical presentation of it includes an acute onset of severe, sometimes radiating back or neck pain, followed by signs and symptoms of rapidly evolving nerve root or spinal cord compression.PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we report a 26-year-old female patient presented with weakness in bilateral lower extremities, progressing to intense paraplegia and anesthesia without recent medical history of trauma, infection, surgery, or drug use.DIAGNOSIS: A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of spinal cord was planned and a posterior epidural hematoma of the thoracic spine was observed.INTERVENTIONS: A posterior decompression and hematoma evacuation was performed after diagnosis immediately. Early rehabilitation program of the specific kind spinal cord injury was formulated and implemented.OUTCOMES: The patient finally can handle basic living activities, such as completing wheelchair locomotion, transferring from bed to wheelchair independently after 3 months of rehabilitation.LESSONS: SSEH is a rarely occurring case in emergency. Acute chest pain and paraplegia could be the initial presentation of acute spinal epidural hemorrhage, but the diagnosis of patient without classical manifestations is still a challenge for doctors. Early diagnosis, prompt decompression, and individualized rehabilitation program can improve the prognosis and outcome. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Adult#Decompression, Surgical#Female#Hematoma, Epidural, Spinal#Humans#Paraplegia#Paresis#Thoracic Vertebrae#Treatment Outcome#Wheelchairs'
b'Depression and suicidal ideation are prevalent mental health problems in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD. However, the association between mental health problems and kidney disease has been investigated in severe cases only. Thus, this study evaluated the relationship between mental health problems and renal function in a community-based prospective cohort study comprising patients with mild to moderate kidney disease. A total of 44,938 participants who were participated in Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey IV, V, and VI from 2007 to 2014 were enrolled. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated using the CKD Epidemiology Collaboration equation. The study outcome was the prevalence of depression and suicidal ideations assessed by self-reporting surveys. Logistic regression analysis was performed to evaluate the relationship between renal function and outcomes. The mean age of the study subjects was 49.2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.6 years, and the mean eGFR was 94.0\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am. The prevalence of depression and suicidal ideation increased with decreasing eGFR. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the risk of depression increased in subjects with eGFR<45\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am [odds ratio (OR) 1.47; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.09-1.98]. The risk of suicidal ideation gradually increased in groups with eGFR<90\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am (OR, 1.11; 95% CI, 1.03-1.20), even after adjustments for confounding variables. In conclusion, depression and suicidal ideation are related closely with renal dysfunction. The risk of having depression and suicidal ideation increased even in patient with mild renal dysfunction. Therefore, evaluation and management strategies regarding mental health problems should be taken into account throughout all stages of CKD. labels: #Adult#Depression#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nutrition Surveys#Odds Ratio#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Suicidal Ideation#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Uterine niche is defined as a triangular anechoic structure at the site of the scar or a gap in the myometrium at the site of a previous caesarean section. The main clinical manifestations are postmenstrual spotting and intrauterine infection, which may seriously affect the daily life of nonpregnant women. Trials have shown an excellent safety and efficacy for the potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as a therapeutic option for scar reconstruction. Therefore, this study is designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of using MSCs in the treatment for the uterine niche.METHODS/DESIGN: This phase II clinical trial is a single-center, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled with 2 arms. One hundred twenty primiparous participants will be randomly (1:1 ratio) assigned to receive direct intramuscular injection of MSCs (a dose of 1*10 cells in 1\xe2\x80\x8amL of 0.9% saline) (MSCs group) or an identical-appearing 1\xe2\x80\x8amL of 0.9% saline (placebo-controlled group) near the uterine incision. The primary outcome of this trial is to evaluate the proportion of participants at 6 months who is found uterine niche in the uterus by transvaginal utrasonography. Adverse events will be documented in a case report form. The study will be conducted at the Department of Obstetric of Southern Medical University Affiliated Maternal&Child Health Hospital of Foshan.DISCUSSION: This trial is the first investigation of the potential for therapeutic use of MSCs for the management of uterine niche after cesarean delivery.CONCLUSION: This protocol will help to determine the efficacy and safety of MSCs treatment in uterine niche and bridge the gap with regards to the current preclinical and clinical evidence.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02968459 (Clinical Trials.gov: http://clinicaltrials.gov/). labels: #Adult#Cesarean Section#Cicatrix#Clinical Protocols#Cord Blood Stem Cell Transplantation#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Injections, Intramuscular#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Postoperative Complications#Pregnancy#Prospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Uterine Diseases#Uterus'
b"RATIONALE: Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by the abnormal accumulation of alveolar surfactant protein in alveolar spaces. Secondary PAP can result from myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).PATIENT CONCERNS: But most reports described a single case; here we reported 2 cases of PAP secondary to MDS. One case developed secondary PAP at the same time as MDS, and the other developed during the course of MDS.DIAGNOSES: The diagnosis of PAP was made by bronchoalveolar lavage and based on the identification of periodic acid-Schiff-positive proteinaceous material. Chest high resolution CT (HRCT) scans showed variable distribution of ground glass opacities, but crazy-paving appearance was not seen in our 2 cases.INTERVENTIONS: Because the patients' general conditions were poor, whole lung lavage was not used in the 2 cases.OUTCOMES: And the 2 cases' prognoses were poor.LESSONS: In conclusion, pulmonary physicians should suspect the possibility of secondary PAP when they encounter unexplained pulmonary infiltrates with some hematologic or infectious disease that shows diffuse bilateral GGO on an HRCT scan. labels: #Adult#Aged#Bronchoalveolar Lavage#Female#Humans#Male#Myelodysplastic Syndromes#Prognosis#Pulmonary Alveolar Proteinosis"
b'We retrospectively compared overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with single (3-5\xe2\x80\x8acm) hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage A treated by surgical resection (SR), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), or transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).Of the 38,167 HCC patients registered between 2008 and 2010 at Korea Central Cancer Registry, National Cancer Center of South Korea, 13% patients were randomly abstracted, and 4596 patients could be analyzed. Of these 4596 patients, 337 patients with single 3 to 5\xe2\x80\x8acm sized HCC with BCLC stage A were enrolled. OSs and PFSs among SR (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a151), RFA (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a36), and TACE groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a150) were compared, respectively. Propensity score (PS) weighting was used to adjust differences among 3 groups.Median follow-up duration was 45 months (range, 1-73 months). After PS weighting, the cumulative OS rates were significantly higher in the SR (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and RFA (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.027) groups than in the TACE group, respectively, but not statistically different between SR and RFA groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.116). The cumulative PFS rates were significantly higher in the SR (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and RFA (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) groups than in the TACE group, respectively. TACE (hazard ratio [HR] 2.46, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), serum albumin (HR 0.57, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002), and tumor size (HR 1.66, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were predictors for OS. TACE (HR 3.14, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), serum bilirubin (HR 1.38, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.020), and tumor size (HR 1.32, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024) were predictors for PFS.RFA has better OS and PFS rates than TACE, and provides comparable survival outcomes compared with SR in single (3-5\xe2\x80\x8acm) HCC with BCLC stage A. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Catheter Ablation#Chemoembolization, Therapeutic#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hepatectomy#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Propensity Score#Proportional Hazards Models#Registries#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b"Because of the aging population and the shortage of standardized institutional solutions for long-term care (LTC) in China, family caregivers in Beijing are increasingly called upon to provide home care for disabled older adults. Caregivers face a heavy care burden, and decreased physical and mental health (MH). This study aims to describe health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and to identify its predictors for Chinese family caregivers of disabled older adults.A total of 766 caregivers were recruited from 5 communities in the Dongcheng District of Beijing. Measures included the 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), the Zarit Caregiver Burden Interview (ZBI) scales, and the Chinese Social Support Rating Scale (SSRS). Hierarchical multiple regression (HMR) analysis was used to identify the predictors.HMR analysis showed that each block of independent variables (demographic characteristics of disabled older adults, demographic characteristics of caregivers, caregiving context, and subjective caregiver burden) had contributed significantly to caregivers' physical and mental quality of life. Subjective caregiver burden explained the greatest amount of total variance in all MH subscales and the 2nd greatest amount of variance in most physical subscales. Therefore, subjective caregiver burden was the strongest predictor of HRQoL.Our findings suggest that a decrease in caregiver burden can improve caregivers' HRQoL, and additional social support is important in decreasing the impact of caregiving on HRQoL. Importantly, an LTC system should be established in China as soon as possible. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Beijing#Caregivers#Cost of Illness#Cross-Sectional Studies#Disabled Persons#Female#Health Status#Health Surveys#Humans#Long-Term Care#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Regression Analysis#Social Support"
b'Lymphatic vessel invasion (LVI) is promising in determining prognosis and treatment strategies, but the application of LVI as a histopathological criterion in breast cancer patients especially those of different subgroups is controversial. This research aims to evaluate the prognostic value of LVI assessed by D2-40 not only in patients with early invasive breast cancer but also in lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, luminal B-like, HER2-enriched, and triple-negative subgroups.The study cohort included 255 patients with a median follow-up of 101 months. Immunohistochemical staining for D2-40 was performed to identify LVI.LVI was present in 64 (25.1%), 15 (12.1%), 49 (37.4%), 19 (20.9%), 23 (27.7%), 13 (31.7%), and 9 (22.5%), respectively, in the whole cohort, lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, luminal B-like, HER2-enriched, and triple-negative patients. LVI was associated with large tumor size (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04), high histological grade (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), involved lymph node (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and high expression of Ki-67 (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). No significant difference was found among patients with different subtypes and LVI status. The presence of LVI was significantly associated with adverse disease-free survival in the whole cohort (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), lymph node-negative (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), lymph node-positive (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), luminal A-like (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and luminal B-like patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) in both of the univariate and multivariate survival analysis.This study indicated that the presence of LVI stained by D2-40 provided independent prognostic information not only in the whole cohort but also in the subgroup of patients with lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, and luminal B-like diseases, which may make a case for routine clinical assessment of LVI using D2-40. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived#Biomarkers, Tumor#Breast Neoplasms#China#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lymphatic Metastasis#Lymphatic Vessels#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Prognosis'
b'RATIONALE: Infantile desmoid fibromatosis of the postcricoid area is a rare disease and is characterized by a proliferation of fibrous tissue with non-metastasis, local infiltration, and a high rate of recurrence after surgical resection. Currently, ultrasound is scarcely used in the hypopharynx and larynx area.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 4-year-old boy presented with hoarseness, deep voice and snoring for 2\xe2\x88\xbc4 years without any surgical history. On sonography, the lesion was found in the postcricoid area, and the left larynx showed impaired mobility in real time observation. Complete excision with a negative margin in this pivotal anatomic area is impossible, and necessitates a long-time surveillance.DIAGNOSES: Infantile desmoid fibromatosis of the postcricoid area was diagnosed according to surgery and histopathology.INTERVENTIONS: Local excision was carried out to relieve the upper airway narrowing.OUTCOMES: Relieved hoarseness and snoring were reported on the latest follow-up. A residual lesion was seen in the surgical bed and maintained a stable extent on ultrasound and MR imaging after a year.LESSONS: Considering the non-radiation merit and diagnostic ability, ultrasonography is advocated as a valuable supplementary imaging method to CT, MR and laryngoscopy in the juvenile larynx and hypopharynx. labels: #Child, Preschool#Cricoid Cartilage#Fibromatosis, Aggressive#Hoarseness#Humans#Laryngeal Neoplasms#Male#Ultrasonography'
b'Iron is an intracellular element whose accumulation in the body is associated with tissue damage. This study examines the effect of iron on pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and its "response to treatment." At the end of the first year of treatment, bone marrow iron store (BMIS) was evaluated in children with ALL and the relationship between iron store and minimal residual disease was investigated. Moreover, the 3-year disease-free survival (3-DFS) of patients was determined. Patients\' BMIS were compared with that of subjects with normal bone marrow. The study examined 93 children, including 78 Pre-B and 15 T-cell ALL patients. BMIS did not differ between the children with ALL and those with no evidence of cancer. BMIS was increased in 26.6% of patients at the end of the first year of treatment. Drug resistance and BM relapses were more prevalent in cases with high BMIS in both Pre-B and T-cell groups. Bone marrow iron store is not considered a risk factor for childhood ALL. However, high levels of BMIS are associated with poor response to treatment and the risk of relapse. Bone marrow iron store control during treatment can therefore help achieve better outcomes and improve the chances of recovery. labels: #Adolescent#Antineoplastic Agents#Bone Marrow#Child#Child, Preschool#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Humans#Infant#Iron#Male#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Tumor chemotherapy could weaken the immune system of patients, which might enhance the body sensitivities to the exogenous pathogens, among which the hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection should be concerned because of the higher chances of infection and the severe outcomes, especially in East Asia. The titer level of hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb) higher than 10\xe2\x80\x8aIU/L is considered to offer immunocompetent individuals adequate protection. However, whether this level is enough to the tumor patients during chemotherapy remains unclear.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 58-year-old female lymphoma patient was admitted to our hospital for asthenia, nausea, vomiting, and abnormal liver function lasting over 1 week and diagnosed as acute hepatitis B. The patient just finished a course of chemotherapy with CHOP regimen and had recent record (78.61\xe2\x80\x8aIU/L) of HBsAb positive. The only risk of infection we could found was that the patient had received blood transfusion shortly after chemotherapy from a donor who was recovering from an asymptomatic acute HBV infection.INTERVENTION: The patient was administered with entecavir and glycyrrhizic acid agent, and then the disease was resolved successfully with hepatitis B surface antigen serological conversion.LESSONS: Tumor chemotherapy might have weakened the immune system of the patient and enhanced the body sensitivities to hepatitis B virus, then led to the infection. We concluded that HBsAb-positive status, at least "weakly positive," might not enough to provide protection for tumor patients on chemotherapy though this level was enough for health individuals and donors recuperating from subclinical acute hepatitis B might be another potential risk of HBV infection. labels: #Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Antiviral Agents#Cyclophosphamide#Doxorubicin#Female#Guanine#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B Antibodies#Hepatitis B Surface Antigens#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Lymphoma#Middle Aged#Prednisolone#Transfusion Reaction#Vincristine'
b'Early rehabilitation after surgery for patellar fracture is challenging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the surgical outcome of titanium cable cerclage for patellar fracture in early functional activity.We reviewed a series of 24 patients treated at our hospital with titanium cable. Functional exercises were started early. Patients were followed up for at least 12 months.Fifteen were males and 9 were females. Fracture occurred in the right knee in 13 patients and in the left knee in 11 patients. The most common mode of injury involves a tumble. None of the patients presented with any postoperative complications. The management resulted in satisfactory outcomes.Titanium cable cerclage offers a new strategy in treating patellar fracture. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Bone Wires#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patella#Retrospective Studies#Titanium#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Surgical methods for type II odontoid fracture can be classified into 2 main groups: anterior or posterior approach. A more effective way to achieve bone fusion with the lowest possible surgical risk is needed. Therefore, the aim of our study was to describe and evaluate a novel technique, cable-dragged reduction/cantilever beam internal fixation for the treatment of type II odontoid fracture.This was a retrospective study enrolled 34 patients underwent posterior cable-dragged reduction/cantilever-beam internal fixation surgery. Medical records, rates of reduction, the location of the instrumentation and fracture healing during follow-up were analyzed. Once fracture healing was obtained, instrumentation was removed. Neck pain (scored using a visual analog scale [VAS]), neck stiffness, patient satisfaction, and neck disability index (NDI) were recorded before and after removing the instrumentation during follow-up.The mean duration of follow up was 22.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5.3 months. There was no iatrogenic damage to nerves or blood vessels. Radiographic evaluation showed complete reduction in the 20 patients with fracture displacement and satisfactory fracture healing in all 34 cases. Titanium cable breakage was observed in 4 patients after fracture healing. After removal of instrumentation, significant improvements were seen in neck-pain VAS score, neck stiffness, patient satisfaction, and NDI (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).Posterior cable-dragged reduction/cantilever-beam internal fixation was an optimal salvage maneuver to conventional surgical methods such as anterior screw fixation and C1-C2 screw-rod system. The operative difficulty and incidence of nerve and vascular injury were reduced. Its major disadvantage is the exposure and screw-setting at C3, which is left intact in traditional surgery, and it is suitable only for patients with intact C1 posterior arches. labels: #Adult#Bone Wires#Closed Fracture Reduction#Female#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fracture Healing#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neck Pain#Odontoid Process#Pain Measurement#Retrospective Studies#Salvage Therapy#Spinal Fractures#Titanium#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: The nasoseptal flap has been widely used to reconstruct skull base defects with excellent success rates. Recently, there were several attempts to use this flap for other defects. Patient concerns: We present the case of the nasoseptal flap reconstruction after oropharyngeal cancer resection.DIAGNOSIS: The diagnosis of this patient was oropharyngeal T3 squamous cell carcinoma.INTERVENTIONS: The surgical resection included the right radical tonsillectomy, uvular, and part of the soft palate and hard palate. The nasoseptal flap was sutured to the oropharyngeal defect.OUTCOMES: In spite of the radiation therapy, the nasoseptal flap was well healed to the oropharyngeal defect.LESSONS: We suggest that the nasoseptal flap may be a feasible reconstruction option for oropharyngeal defect after oropharyngeal cancer resection. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Humans#Male#Nasal Septum#Oropharyngeal Neoplasms#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgical Flaps#Treatment Outcome'
b'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for spirometry parameters have been limited to forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), and their ratio. This study examined to identify genetic variants associated with maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV), an important spirometry parameter presenting inspiratory muscle strength.A total of 8842 Korean subjects participated in the Korean Association REsource Consortium were used to identify nucleotide variants associated with MVV and other spirometry parameters through a GWAS. Genetic associations were determined by employing a mixed model that can control background polygenic effects.The analysis revealed 3 nucleotide variants associated with MVV (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10). One (rs1496255) was also associated with FVC and FEV1. The other 2 variants were identified only for MVV and located in the genes of LOC102724340 (rs41434646) and FHIT (rs9833533). In particular, FHIT represses transcriptional activity of \xce\xb2-catenin, a critical protein for growth of skeletal muscle, and thus might have influenced the level of MVV.The current study revealed 2 novel nucleotide variants as genetic association signals for MVV. The association signals were suggested specific for neuromuscular diseases with a restrictive ventilatory impairment. Further studies are required to understand underlying mechanisms for their influence to restrictive lung diseases. labels: #Acid Anhydride Hydrolases#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Carrier Proteins#Female#Forced Expiratory Volume#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Lung#Lung Diseases#Male#Maximal Voluntary Ventilation#Membrane Glycoproteins#Neoplasm Proteins#Republic of Korea#Spirometry#Vital Capacity'
b'Percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder drainage followed by laparoscopic cholecystectomy (PTGBD+LC) is one treatment option for patients with moderate to severe acute cholecystitis (AC). However, the impact of PTGBD on operative difficulties in performing LC is controversial. We designed this retrospective study to clarify the surgical outcomes after PTGBD+LC for the management of patients with moderate to severe AC.The medical records of 85 patients who underwent LC for moderate to severe AC from January 2013 to September 2016 were evaluated. They were divided into 2 groups based on the type of management: group A received PTGBD+LC, and group B received LC without drainage. We compared the patient characteristics, laboratory data which were obtained immediately before surgery or PTGBD at index admission, and surgical outcomes between the 2 groups. We also evaluated possible predictive factors associated with prolonged operative duration after PTGBD+LC.Patients in group A were older and had more comorbidities than those in group B. The laboratory tests obtained at index admission in group A showed higher serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and alkaline phosphatase, and lower albumin levels than those in group B. The surgical outcomes after LC were similar between the 2 groups. However, operative duration was significantly shorter in group A (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). In group A, a higher serum level of CRP was a predictive factor for a prolonged operation (hazard ratio 1.126; 95% confidence interval 1.012-1.253; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.029). In conclusion, PTGBD+LC can shorten the operative duration in patients with moderate to severe AC, which might improve surgical outcomes in elderly patients with comorbidities, and elevated CRP values predicted a prolonged operation after PTGBD. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#C-Reactive Protein#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Cholecystitis, Acute#Combined Modality Therapy#Drainage#Elective Surgical Procedures#Female#Gallbladder#Humans#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: More mature or older women are more likely to undergo in vitro fertilization and embryo implant. These women have a greater chance of receiving ergonovine therapy because of a suspected abortion. We present this case report to call attention to a latent lethal adverse effect in everyday obstetric practice using ergonovine. It requires more attention and close monitoring PATIENT CONCERNS:: We presented the case of a 38-year-old female patient with general weakness and mild chest tightness after ergonovine use.DIAGNOSES: She was diagnosed as transient sick sinus syndrome and complete atrioventricular block with junctional escape rhythm after diagnostic work up.INTERVENTIONS: Conservative treatment with discontinuation of ergonovine and bed rest.OUTCOMES: Her sinus rhythm returned to normal the day after ergonovine was discontinued. The patient remained symptom-free since recovery of her sinus rhythm.LESSONS: Ergonovine may cause symptomatic and lethal bradyarrhythmia. Withdrawal of the causative medication and adequate supportive care can lead to a favorable outcome in these patients. More related cases should be reported. Further evaluation for treatment and prognosis are necessary. labels: #Adult#Atrioventricular Block#Bed Rest#Conservative Treatment#Ergonovine#Female#Humans#Oxytocics#Sick Sinus Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b'This protocol is an extension to: Nat. Protoc. 8, 491-500 (2013); doi:10.1038/nprot.2013.020; published online 14 February 2013RBDmap is a method for identifying, in a proteome-wide manner, the regions of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) engaged in native interactions with RNA. In brief, cells are irradiated with UV light to induce protein-RNA cross-links. Following stringent denaturing washes, the resulting covalently linked protein-RNA complexes are purified with oligo(dT) magnetic beads. After elution, RBPs are subjected to partial proteolysis, in which the protein regions still bound to the RNA and those released to the supernatant are separated by a second oligo(dT) selection. After sample preparation and mass-spectrometric analysis, peptide intensity ratios between the RNA-bound and released fractions are used to determine the RNA-binding regions. As a Protocol Extension, this article describes an adaptation of an existing Protocol and offers additional applications. The earlier protocol (for the RNA interactome capture method) describes how to identify the active RBPs in cultured cells, whereas this Protocol Extension also enables the identification of the RNA-binding domains of RBPs. The experimental workflow takes 1 week plus 2 additional weeks for proteomics and data analysis. Notably, RBDmap presents numerous advantages over classic methods for determining RNA-binding domains: it produces proteome-wide, high-resolution maps of the protein regions contacting the RNA in a physiological context and can be adapted to different biological systems and conditions. Because RBDmap relies on the isolation of polyadenylated RNA via oligo(dT), it will not provide RNA-binding information on proteins interacting exclusively with nonpolyadenylated transcripts. Applied to HeLa cells, RBDmap uncovered 1,174 RNA-binding sites in 529 proteins, many of which were previously unknown. labels: #Algorithms#Binding Sites#Gene Expression#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mass Spectrometry#Oligodeoxyribonucleotides#Protein Binding#Proteolysis#Proteomics#RNA, Messenger#RNA-Binding Motifs#RNA-Binding Proteins#Ultraviolet Rays'
b'We describe a sensitive, robust, high-throughput method for quantifying the ability of metastatic tumor cells to colonize a secondary organ. Metastasis is the leading cause of death in cancer patients, and successful colonization of the secondary organ is the rate-limiting step in the metastatic process; thus, experimental methods that can be used to interrogate the key factors required for this critical step are of great importance. The experimental metastasis assay we detail here includes tail-vein injection of cancer cells into the mouse and determination of the resulting secondary organ colonization, primarily in the lung, 10 d post dosing. This assay can be used to investigate factors that regulate metastatic colonization both at the tumor-cell-intrinsic level (via manipulation of the tumor cells before injection) and at the tumor-cell-extrinsic level (such as the tissue microenvironment, via the use of genetically modified (GM) mice or agents such as antibodies or drugs). Using this method, we have robustly screened more than 950 GM mouse lines to identify novel microenvironmental regulators of metastatic colonization. The experimental details discussed here include choosing of appropriate cell numbers, handling of the cells, selection of recipient animals and injection techniques. Furthermore, we discuss key experimental design considerations, including the choice of the method used to determine metastatic burden and statistical analysis of the results, as well as provide troubleshooting tips and identification of factors that contribute to experimental variability. labels: #Animals#Breast Neoplasms#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Cell Line, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Gene Editing#High-Throughput Screening Assays#Humans#Injections, Intravenous#Lung Neoplasms#Melanoma, Experimental#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Transplantation'
b'During 2014, 120,000 persons in the United States and Puerto Rico began treatment for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (i.e., kidney failure requiring dialysis or transplantation) (1). Among these persons, 44% (approximately 53,000 persons) had diabetes listed as the primary cause of ESRD (ESRD-D) (1). Although the number of persons initiating ESRD-D treatment each year has increased since 1980 (1,2), the ESRD-D incidence rate among persons with diagnosed diabetes has declined since the mid-1990s (2,3). To determine whether ESRD-D incidence has continued to decline in the United States overall and in each state, the District of Columbia (DC), and Puerto Rico, CDC analyzed 2000-2014 data from the U.S. Renal Data System and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. During that period, the age-standardized ESRD-D incidence among persons with diagnosed diabetes declined from 260.2 to 173.9 per 100,000 diabetic population (33%), and declined significantly in most states, DC, and Puerto Rico. No state experienced an increase in ESRD-D incidence rates. Continued awareness of risk factors for kidney failure and interventions to improve diabetes care might sustain and improve these trends. labels: #Adult#Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System#Diabetes Complications#Humans#Incidence#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Puerto Rico#Risk Factors#United States'
b'PROBLEM/CONDITION: Many rural residents work in the field of agriculture; however, employment in nonagricultural jobs also is common. Because previous studies in rural communities often have focused on agricultural workers, much less is known about the occupational exposures in other types of jobs in rural settings. Characterizing airborne occupational exposures that can contribute to respiratory diseases is important so that differences between rural and urban working populations can be assessed.REPORTING PERIOD: 1994-2011.DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM: This investigation used data from the baseline questionnaire completed by adult rural residents participating in the Keokuk County Rural Health Study (KCRHS). The distribution of jobs and occupational exposures to vapor-gas, dust, and fumes (VGDF) among all participants was analyzed and stratified by farming status (current, former, and never) then compared with a cohort of urban workers from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA). Occupational exposure in the last job was assessed with a job-exposure matrix (JEM) developed for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The COPD JEM assesses VGDF exposure at levels of none or low, medium, and high.RESULTS: The 1,699 KCRHS (rural) participants were more likely to have medium or high occupational VGDF exposure (43.2%) at their last job than their urban MESA counterparts (15.0% of 3,667 participants). One fifth (20.8%) of the rural participants currently farmed, 43.1% were former farmers, and approximately one third (36.1%) had never farmed. These three farming groups differed in VGDF exposure at the last job, with the prevalence of medium or high exposure at 80.2% for current farmers, 38.7% for former farmers, and 27.4% for never farmers, and all three percentages were higher than the 15.0% medium or high level of VGDF exposure for urban workers.INTERPRETATION: Rural workers, including those who had never farmed, were more likely to experience occupational VGDF exposure than urban workers.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: The occupational exposures of rural adults assessed using the COPD JEM will be used to investigate their potential association with obstructive respiratory health problems (e.g., airflow limitation and chronic bronchitis). This assessment might highlight occupations in need of preventive interventions. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Air Pollutants, Occupational#Cohort Studies#Dust#Female#Gases#Humans#Iowa#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Diseases#Occupational Exposure#Occupations#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Rural Population#Surveys and Questionnaires#Urban Population#Young Adult'
b"Preliminary estimates of U.S. drug overdose deaths exceeded 60,000 in 2016 and were partially driven by a fivefold increase in overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids (excluding methadone), from 3,105 in 2013 to approximately 20,000 in 2016 (1,2). Illicitly manufactured fentanyl, a synthetic opioid 50-100 times more potent than morphine, is primarily responsible for this rapid increase (3,4). In addition, fentanyl analogs such as acetylfentanyl, furanylfentanyl, and carfentanil are being detected increasingly in overdose deaths (5,6) and the illicit opioid drug supply (7). Carfentanil is estimated to be 10,000 times more potent than morphine (8). Estimates of the potency of acetylfentanyl and furanylfentanyl vary but suggest that they are less potent than fentanyl (9). Estimates of relative potency have some uncertainty because illicit fentanyl analog potency has not been evaluated in humans. This report describes opioid overdose deaths during July-December 2016 that tested positive for fentanyl, fentanyl analogs, or U-47700, an illicit synthetic opioid, in 10 states participating in CDC's Enhanced State Opioid Overdose Surveillance (ESOOS) program.* Fentanyl analogs are similar in chemical structure to fentanyl but not routinely detected because specialized toxicology testing is required. Fentanyl was detected in at least half of opioid overdose deaths in seven of 10 states, and 57% of fentanyl-involved deaths also tested positive for other illicit drugs, such as heroin. Fentanyl analogs were present in>10% of opioid overdose deaths in four states, with carfentanil, furanylfentanyl, and acetylfentanyl identified most frequently. Expanded surveillance for opioid overdoses, including testing for fentanyl and fentanyl analogs, assists in tracking the rapidly changing illicit opioid market and informing innovative interventions designed to reduce opioid overdose deaths. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Benzamides#Drug Overdose#Female#Fentanyl#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#United States#Young Adult"
b'In 1988, the World Health Assembly launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) (1). Among the three wild poliovirus (WPV) serotypes, only type 1 (WPV1) has been detected since 2012. Since 2014, detection of WPV1 has been limited to three countries, with 37 cases in 2016 and 11 cases in 2017 as of September 27. The>99.99% decline worldwide in polio cases since the launch of the GPEI is attributable to the extensive use of the live, attenuated oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) in mass vaccination campaigns and comprehensive national routine immunization programs. Despite its well-established safety record, OPV use can be associated with rare emergence of genetically divergent vaccine-derived polioviruses (VDPVs) whose genetic drift from the parental OPV strains indicates prolonged replication or circulation (2). VDPVs can also emerge among persons with primary immunodeficiencies (PIDs). Immunodeficiency-associated VDPVs (iVDPVs) can replicate for years in some persons with PIDs. In addition, circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses (cVDPVs) can emerge very rarely among immunologically normal vaccine recipients and their contacts in areas with inadequate OPV coverage and can cause outbreaks of paralytic polio. This report updates previous summaries regarding VDPVs (3). During January 2016-June 2017, new cVDPV outbreaks were identified, including two in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) (eight cases), and another in Syria (35 cases), whereas the circulation of cVDPV type 2 (cVDPV2) in Nigeria resulted in cVDPV2 detection linked to a previous emergence. The last confirmed case from the 2015-2016 cVDPV type 1 (cVDPV1) outbreak in Laos occurred in January 2016. Fourteen newly identified persons in 10 countries were found to excrete iVDPVs, and three previously reported patients in the United Kingdom and Iran (3) were still excreting type 2 iVDPV (iVDPV2) during the reporting period. Ambiguous VDPVs (aVDPVs), isolates that cannot be classified definitively, were found among immunocompetent persons and environmental samples in 10 countries. Cessation of all OPV use after certification of polio eradication will eliminate the risk for new VDPV infections. labels: #Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Global Health#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Infant#Male#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus#Poliovirus Vaccine, Oral#Serotyping#Sewage#Vaccines, Attenuated'
b"Rotavirus is a leading cause of severe pediatric diarrhea globally, estimated to have caused 120,000 deaths among children aged<5 years in sub-Saharan Africa in 2013 (1). In 2009, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended rotavirus vaccination for all infants worldwide (2). Two rotavirus vaccines are currently licensed globally: the monovalent Rotarix vaccine (RV1, GlaxoSmithKline; 2-dose series) and the pentavalent RotaTeq vaccine (RV5, Merck; 3-dose series). This report describes progress of rotavirus vaccine introduction (3), coverage (using estimates from WHO and the United Nations Children's Fund [UNICEF]) (4), and impact on pediatric diarrhea hospitalizations in the WHO African Region. By December 2016, 31 (66%) of 47 countries in the WHO African Region had introduced rotavirus vaccine, including 26 that introduced RV1 and five that introduced RV5. Among these countries, rotavirus vaccination coverage (completed series) was 77%, according to WHO/UNICEF population-weighted estimates. In 12 countries with surveillance data available before and after vaccine introduction, the proportion of pediatric diarrhea hospitalizations that were rotavirus-positive declined 33%, from 39% preintroduction to 26% following rotavirus vaccine introduction. These results support introduction of rotavirus vaccine in the remaining countries in the region and continuation of rotavirus surveillance to monitor impact. labels: #Africa#Child, Preschool#Feces#Humans#Immunization Programs#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Population Surveillance#Rotavirus#Rotavirus Infections#Rotavirus Vaccines#World Health Organization"
b'Vaccination is the most effective intervention to reduce morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases in young children (1). Data from the 2016 National Immunization Survey-Child (NIS-Child) were used to assess coverage with recommended vaccines (2) among children aged 19-35 months in the United States. Coverage remained \xe2\x89\xa590% for \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of poliovirus vaccine (91.9%), \xe2\x89\xa51 dose of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (MMR) (91.1%), \xe2\x89\xa51 dose of varicella vaccine (90.6%), and \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of hepatitis B vaccine (HepB) (90.5%). Coverage in 2016 was approximately 1-2 percentage points lower than in 2015 for \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine (DTaP), \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of poliovirus vaccine, the primary Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) series, \xe2\x89\xa53 HepB doses, and \xe2\x89\xa53 and \xe2\x89\xa54 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), with no changes for other vaccines. More direct evaluation of trends by month and year of birth (3) found no change in coverage by age 2 years among children included in combined data from the 2015 and 2016 NIS-Child (born January 2012 through January 2015). The observed decreases in annual estimates might result from random differences in vaccination coverage by age 19 months between children sampled in 2016 and those sampled in 2015, among those birth cohorts eligible to be sampled in both survey years. For most vaccines, 2016 coverage was lower among non-Hispanic black* (black) children than among non-Hispanic white (white) children, and for children living below the federal poverty level\xe2\x80\xa0compared with those living at or above the poverty level. Vaccination coverage was generally lower among children insured by Medicaid (2.5-12.0 percentage points), and was much lower among uninsured children (12.4-24.9 percentage points), than among children with private insurance. The Vaccines for Children\xc2\xa7(VFC) program was designed to increase access to vaccines among children who might not otherwise be vaccinated because of inability to pay. Greater awareness and facilitating use of VFC might be helpful in reducing these disparities. Efforts should also be focused on minimizing breaks in continuity of health insurance and eliminating missed opportunities to vaccinate children during visits to health care providers. Despite the observed disparities and small changes in coverage from 2015, vaccination coverage among children aged 19-35 months remained high and stable in 2016. labels: #Child, Preschool#Ethnic Groups#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Insurance, Health#Poverty#United States#Vaccination#Vaccines'
b'Cyanobacteria, also known as blue-green algae, are photosynthetic, aquatic organisms found in fresh, brackish, and marine water around the world (1). Rapid proliferation and accumulation of potentially toxin-producing cyanobacteria characterize one type of harmful algal bloom (HAB). HABs have the potential to cause illness in humans and animals (2,3); however, the epidemiology of these illnesses has not been well characterized. Statewide in 2015, a total of 139 HABs were identified in New York, 97 (70%) of which were confirmed through laboratory analysis; 77 independent beach closures were ordered at 37 beaches on 20 different bodies of water. To better characterize HAB-associated illnesses, during June-September 2015, the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) implemented a pilot surveillance system in 16 New York counties. Activities included the collection of data from environmental HAB reports, illness reports, poison control centers, and syndromic surveillance, and increased outreach to the public, health care providers, and veterinarians. During June-September, 51 HAB-associated illnesses were reported, including 35 that met the CDC case definitions*; 32 of the cases occurred in humans and three in dogs. In previous years, New York never had more than 10 HAB-associated illnesses reported statewide. The pilot surveillance results from 16 counties during a 4-month period suggest that HAB-associated illnesses might be more common than previously reported. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Female#Harmful Algal Bloom#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#New York#Pilot Projects#Population Surveillance#Young Adult'
b"In 2016, 55 jurisdictions in 49 states and six cities in the United States* used immunization information systems (IISs) to collect and manage immunization data and support vaccination providers and immunization programs. To monitor progress toward achieving IIS program goals, CDC surveys jurisdictions through an annual self-administered IIS Annual Report (IISAR). Data from the 2013-2016 IISARs were analyzed to assess progress made in four priority areas: 1) data completeness, 2) bidirectional exchange of data with electronic health record systems, 3) clinical decision support for immunizations, and 4) ability to generate childhood vaccination coverage estimates. IIS participation among children aged 4 months through 5 years increased from 90% in 2013 to 94% in 2016, and 33 jurisdictions reported \xe2\x89\xa595% of children aged 4 months through 5 years participating in their IIS in 2016. Bidirectional messaging capacity in IISs increased from 25 jurisdictions in 2013 to 37 in 2016. In 2016, nearly all jurisdictions (52 of 55) could provide automated provider-level coverage reports, and 32 jurisdictions reported that their IISs could send vaccine forecasts to providers via Health Level 7 (HL7) messaging, up from 17 in 2013. Incremental progress was made in each area since 2013, but continued effort is needed to implement these critical functionalities among all IISs. Success in these priority areas, as defined by the IIS Functional Standards (1), bolsters clinicians' and public health practitioners' ability to attain high vaccination coverage in pediatric populations, and prepares IISs to develop more advanced functionalities to support state/local immunization services. Success in these priority areas also supports the achievement of federal immunization objectives, including the use of IISs as supplemental sampling frames for vaccination coverage surveys like the National Immunization Survey (NIS)-Child, reducing data collection costs, and supporting increased precision of state-level estimates. labels: #Child, Preschool#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Immunization#Immunization Programs#Infant#Information Systems#Program Evaluation#United States"
b'Natural sounds convey perceptually relevant information over multiple timescales, and the necessary extraction of multi-timescale information requires the auditory system to work over distinct ranges. The simplest hypothesis suggests that temporal modulations are encoded in an equivalent manner within a reasonable intermediate range. We show that the human auditory system selectively and preferentially tracks acoustic dynamics concurrently at 2 timescales corresponding to the neurophysiological theta band (4-7 Hz) and gamma band ranges (31-45 Hz) but, contrary to expectation, not at the timescale corresponding to alpha (8-12 Hz), which has also been found to be related to auditory perception. Listeners heard synthetic acoustic stimuli with temporally modulated structures at 3 timescales (approximately 190-, approximately 100-, and approximately 30-ms modulation periods) and identified the stimuli while undergoing magnetoencephalography recording. There was strong intertrial phase coherence in the theta band for stimuli of all modulation rates and in the gamma band for stimuli with corresponding modulation rates. The alpha band did not respond in a similar manner. Classification analyses also revealed that oscillatory phase reliably tracked temporal dynamics but not equivalently across rates. Finally, mutual information analyses quantifying the relation between phase and cochlear-scaled correlations also showed preferential processing in 2 distinct regimes, with the alpha range again yielding different patterns. The results support the hypothesis that the human auditory system employs (at least) a 2-timescale processing mode, in which lower and higher perceptual sampling scales are segregated by an intermediate temporal regime in the alpha band that likely reflects different underlying computations. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Auditory Perception#Behavior#Biomarkers#Electroencephalography#Evoked Potentials, Auditory#Female#Gamma Rhythm#Humans#Male#Nervous System Physiological Phenomena#Theta Rhythm#Time Factors#Young Adult'
b'Divergence of upstream regulatory pathways of the transcription factor Doublesex (Dsx) serves as a basis for evolution of sex-determining mechanisms in animals. However, little is known about the regulation of Dsx in environmental sex determination. In the crustacean Daphnia magna, environmental sex determination is implemented by male-specific expression of the Dsx ortholog, Dsx1. Transcriptional regulation of Dsx1 comprises at least three phases during embryogenesis: non-sex-specific initiation, male-specific up-regulation, and its maintenance. Herein, we demonstrate that the male-specific up-regulation is controlled by the bZIP transcription factor, Vrille (Vri), an ortholog of the circadian clock genes-Drosophila Vri and mammalian E4BP4/NFIL3. Sequence analysis of the Dsx1 promoter/enhancer revealed a conserved element among two Daphnia species (D. magna and D. pulex), which contains a potential enhancer harboring a consensus Vri binding site overlapped with a consensus Dsx binding site. Besides non-sex-specific expression of Vri in late embryos, we found male-specific expression in early gastrula before the Dsx1 up-regulation phase begins. Knockdown of Vri in male embryos showed reduction of Dsx1 expression. In addition, transient overexpression of Vri in early female embryos up-regulated the expression of Dsx1 and induced male-specific trait. Targeted mutagenesis using CRISPR/Cas9 disrupted the enhancer on genome in males, which led to the reduction of Dsx1 expression. These results indicate that Vri was co-opted as a transcriptional activator of Dsx1 in environmental sex determination of D. magna. The data suggests the remarkably plastic nature of gene regulatory network in sex determination. labels: #Animals#Basic-Leucine Zipper Transcription Factors#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Cloning, Molecular#DNA-Binding Proteins#Daphnia#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Loci#Genotyping Techniques#Male#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Sex Determination Processes'
b'Several conditions associated with reduced gastric acid secretion confer an altered risk of developing a gastric malignancy. Helicobacter pylori-induced atrophic gastritis predisposes to gastric adenocarcinoma, autoimmune atrophic gastritis is a precursor of type I gastric neuroendocrine tumours, whereas proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use does not affect stomach cancer risk. We hypothesised that each of these conditions was associated with specific alterations in the gastric microbiota and that this influenced subsequent tumour risk. 95 patients (in groups representing normal stomach, PPI treated, H. pylori gastritis, H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis and autoimmune atrophic gastritis) were selected from a cohort of 1400. RNA extracted from gastric corpus biopsies was analysed using 16S rRNA sequencing (MiSeq). Samples from normal stomachs and patients treated with PPIs demonstrated similarly high microbial diversity. Patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis also exhibited relatively high microbial diversity, but with samples dominated by Streptococcus. H. pylori colonisation was associated with decreased microbial diversity and reduced complexity of co-occurrence networks. H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis resulted in lower bacterial abundances and diversity, whereas autoimmune atrophic gastritis resulted in greater bacterial abundance and equally high diversity compared to normal stomachs. Pathway analysis suggested that glucose-6-phospahte1-dehydrogenase and D-lactate dehydrogenase were over represented in H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis versus autoimmune atrophic gastritis, and that both these groups showed increases in fumarate reductase. Autoimmune and H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis were associated with different gastric microbial profiles. PPI treated patients showed relatively few alterations in the gastric microbiota compared to healthy subjects. labels: #Achlorhydria#Adult#Aged#Autoimmune Diseases#Cluster Analysis#Cohort Studies#England#Female#Gastric Mucosa#Gastritis, Atrophic#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Helicobacter Infections#Helicobacter pylori#Hospitals, University#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Proton Pump Inhibitors#Risk#Stomach Neoplasms'
b'Norovirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis worldwide. Despite recent developments in norovirus propagation in cell culture, these viruses are still challenging to grow routinely. Moreover, little is known on how norovirus infects the host cells, except that histo-blood group antigens (HBGAs) are important binding factors for infection and cell entry. Antibodies that bind at the HBGA pocket and block attachment to HBGAs are believed to neutralize the virus. However, additional neutralization epitopes elsewhere on the capsid likely exist and impeding the intrinsic structural dynamics of the capsid could be equally important. In the current study, we investigated a panel of Nanobodies in order to probe functional epitopes that could trigger capsid rearrangement and/ or interfere with HBGA binding interactions. The precise binding sites of six Nanobodies (Nano-4, Nano-14, Nano-26, Nano-27, Nano-32, and Nano-42) were identified using X-ray crystallography. We showed that these Nanobodies bound on the top, side, and bottom of the norovirus protruding domain. The impact of Nanobody binding on norovirus capsid morphology was analyzed using electron microscopy and dynamic light scattering. We discovered that distinct Nanobody epitopes were associated with varied changes in particle structural integrity and assembly. Interestingly, certain Nanobody-induced capsid morphological changes lead to the capsid protein degradation and viral RNA exposure. Moreover, Nanobodies employed multiple inhibition mechanisms to prevent norovirus attachment to HBGAs, which included steric obstruction (Nano-14), allosteric interference (Nano-32), and violation of normal capsid morphology (Nano-26 and Nano-85). Finally, we showed that two Nanobodies (Nano-26 and Nano-85) not only compromised capsid integrity and inhibited VLPs attachment to HBGAs, but also recognized a broad panel of norovirus genotypes with high affinities. Consequently, Nano-26 and Nano-85 have a great potential to function as novel therapeutic agents against human noroviruses. labels: #Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antibody Affinity#Antiviral Agents#Binding Sites, Antibody#Binding, Competitive#Blood Group Antigens#Capsid#Capsid Proteins#Cross Reactions#Crystallography, X-Ray#Dynamic Light Scattering#Epitopes#Kinetics#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Models, Molecular#Norovirus#Protein Conformation#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Single-Domain Antibodies#Thermodynamics'
b'OBJECTIVES: To identify groups at risk of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection, patterns of antimicrobial resistance, and the proportion of patients with MRSA infections but no history of recent hospitalisation.DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Case series of 39 231 patients with S. aureus isolates from specimens processed by the Hunter New England Local Health District (HNELHD) public pathology provider during 2008-2014.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Proportion of MRSA infections among people with S. aureus isolates; antimicrobial susceptibility of MRSA isolates; origin of MRSA infections (community- or health care-associated); demographic factors associated with community-associated MRSA infections.RESULTS: There were 71 736 S. aureus-positive specimens during the study period and MRSA was isolated from 19.3% of first positive specimens. Most patients (56.9%) from whom MRSA was isolated had not been admitted to a public hospital in the past year. Multiple regression identified that patients with community-associated MRSA were more likely to be younger (under 40), Indigenous Australians (odds ratio [OR], 2.6; 95% CI, 2.3-2.8), or a resident of an aged care facility (OR, 4.7; 95% CI, 3.8-5.8). The proportion of MRSA isolates that included the dominant multi-resistant strain (AUS-2/3-like) declined from 29.6% to 3.4% during the study period (P<0.001), as did the rates of hospital origin MRSA in two of the major hospitals in the region.CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of MRSA in the HNELHD region decreased during the study period, and was predominantly acquired in the community, particularly by young people, Indigenous Australians, and residents of aged care facilities. While the dominance of the multi-resistant strain decreased, new strategies for controlling infections in the community are needed to reduce the prevalence of non-multi-resistant strains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Community-Acquired Infections#Female#Hospitals, Public#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#New South Wales#Oceanic Ancestry Group#Public Health#Regression Analysis#Seasons#Sex Distribution#Staphylococcal Infections#Young Adult'
b'OBJECTIVES: To describe trends in the age-specific incidence of serogroup B invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) in Australia, 1999-2015.DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS: Analysis in February 2017 of de-identified notification data from the Australian National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System of all notifications of IMD in Australia with a recorded diagnosis date during 1999-2015.Major outcomes: IMD notification rates in Australia, 1999-2015, by age, serogroup, Indigenous status, and region.RESULTS: The incidence of meningococcal serogroup B (MenB) disease declined progressively from 1.52 cases per 100 000 population in 2001 to 0.47 per 100 000 in 2015. During 2006-2015, MenB accounted for 81% of IMD cases with a known serogroup; its highest incidence was among infants under 12 months of age (11.1 [95% CI, 9.81-12.2] per 100 000), children aged 1-4 years (2.82 [95% CI, 2.52-3.15]per 100 000), and adolescents aged 15-19 years (2.40 [95% CI, 2.16-2.67] per 100 000). Among the 473 infants under 2 years of age with MenB, 43% were under 7 months and 69% under 12 months of age. The incidence of meningococcal serogroup C (MenC) disease prior to the introduction of the MenC vaccine in 2003 was much lower in infants than for MenB (2.60 cases per 100 000), the rate peaking in people aged 15-19 years (3.32 per 100 000); the overall case fatality rate was also higher (MenC, 8%; MenB, 4%). The incidence of MenB disease was significantly higher among Indigenous than non-Indigenous Australians during 2006-2015 (incidence rate ratio [IRR], 3.8; 95% CI, 3.3-4.5).CONCLUSIONS: Based on disease incidence at its current low endemic levels, priority at risk age/population groups for MenB vaccination include all children between 2 months and 5 years of age, Indigenous children under 10 years of age, and all adolescents aged 15-19 years. Given marked variation in meningococcal disease trends over time, close scrutiny of current epidemiologic data is essential. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Australia#Child#Child, Preschool#Epidemiological Monitoring#Female#Humans#Incidence#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Middle Aged#Neisseria meningitidis#Oceanic Ancestry Group#Serogroup#Vaccination#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Persistent low-level hemolysis (LLH) during continuous-flow mechanical circulatory support is associated with subsequent thrombosis. Free hemoglobin from ongoing hemolysis scavenges nitric oxide (NO) to create an NO deficiency which can augment platelet function leading to a prothrombotic state. The phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, sildenafil, potentiates NO signaling to inhibit platelet function. Accordingly, we investigated the association of sildenafil administration and thrombotic events in patients with LLH during Heart Mate II support.METHODS AND RESULTS: A single-center review of all patients implanted with a Heart Mate II who survived to discharge (n=144). LLH was defined by a discharge lactate dehydrogenase level of 400 to 700 U/L. Patients were categorized as (1) LLH not on sildenafil, (2) LLH on sildenafil, (3) no LLH not on sildenafil, and (4) no LLH on sildenafil. Age, sex, platelet count, and mean platelet volume were similar between groups. Seventeen patients had either device thrombosis or ischemic stroke. Presence of LLH was associated with a greater risk of thrombosis (adjusted hazard ratio, 15; 95% confidence interval, 4.5-50;P<0.001 versus no LLH, not on sildenafil). This risk was reduced in patients with LLH on sildenafil (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.2-16.1;P=0.61). Device thrombosis and ischemic stroke were associated with an increase in mean platelet volume (9.6\xc2\xb10.5 to 10.9\xc2\xb10.8 fL,P<0.001). Patients with LLH not on sildenafil had a greater increase in mean platelet volume in comparison to those with LLH on sildenafil (P<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Sildenafil is associated with reduced device thrombosis and ischemic stroke during ongoing LLH on Heart Mate II support. labels: #Brain Ischemia#Chi-Square Distribution#Disease-Free Survival#Heart Failure#Heart-Assist Devices#Hemolysis#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Mean Platelet Volume#Phosphodiesterase 5 Inhibitors#Proportional Hazards Models#Prosthesis Design#Protective Factors#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sildenafil Citrate#Stroke#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy type 1 (SMA1) is a progressive, monogenic motor neuron disease with an onset during infancy that results in failure to achieve motor milestones and in death or the need for mechanical ventilation by 2 years of age. We studied functional replacement of the mutated gene encoding survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) in this disease.METHODS: Fifteen patients with SMA1 received a single dose of intravenous adeno-associated virus serotype 9 carrying SMN complementary DNA encoding the missing SMN protein. Three of the patients received a low dose (6.7\xc3\x971013vg per kilogram of body weight), and 12 received a high dose (2.0\xc3\x971014vg per kilogram). The primary outcome was safety. The secondary outcome was the time until death or the need for permanent ventilatory assistance. In exploratory analyses, we compared scores on the CHOP INTEND (Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test of Neuromuscular Disorders) scale of motor function (ranging from 0 to 64, with higher scores indicating better function) in the two cohorts and motor milestones in the high-dose cohort with scores in studies of the natural history of the disease (historical cohorts).RESULTS: As of the data cutoff on August 7, 2017, all 15 patients were alive and event-free at 20 months of age, as compared with a rate of survival of 8% in a historical cohort. In the high-dose cohort, a rapid increase from baseline in the score on the CHOP INTEND scale followed gene delivery, with an increase of 9.8 points at 1 month and 15.4 points at 3 months, as compared with a decline in this score in a historical cohort. Of the 12 patients who had received the high dose, 11 sat unassisted, 9 rolled over, 11 fed orally and could speak, and 2 walked independently. Elevated serum aminotransferase levels occurred in 4 patients and were attenuated by prednisolone.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with SMA1, a single intravenous infusion of adeno-associated viral vector containing DNA coding for SMN resulted in longer survival, superior achievement of motor milestones, and better motor function than in historical cohorts. Further studies are necessary to confirm the safety and efficacy of this gene therapy. (Funded by AveXis and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02122952 .). labels: #Cohort Studies#Dependovirus#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Genetic Therapy#Genetic Vectors#Historically Controlled Study#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Infusions, Intravenous#Liver Diseases#Male#Motor Skills#Nutritional Support#Respiration, Artificial#Spinal Muscular Atrophies of Childhood#Survival of Motor Neuron 1 Protein"
b"BACKGROUND: There is limited information regarding the effects of spaceflight on the anatomical configuration of the brain and on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaces.METHODS: We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to compare images of 18 astronauts' brains before and after missions of long duration, involving stays on the International Space Station, and of 16 astronauts' brains before and after missions of short duration, involving participation in the Space Shuttle Program. Images were interpreted by readers who were unaware of the flight duration. We also generated paired preflight and postflight MRI cine clips derived from high-resolution, three-dimensional imaging of 12 astronauts after long-duration flights and from 6 astronauts after short-duration flights in order to assess the extent of narrowing of CSF spaces and the displacement of brain structures. We also compared preflight ventricular volumes with postflight ventricular volumes by means of an automated analysis of T1-weighted MRIs. The main prespecified analyses focused on the change in the volume of the central sulcus, the change in the volume of CSF spaces at the vertex, and vertical displacement of the brain.RESULTS: Narrowing of the central sulcus occurred in 17 of 18 astronauts after long-duration flights (mean flight time, 164.8 days) and in 3 of 16 astronauts after short-duration flights (mean flight time, 13.6 days) (P<0.001). Cine clips from a subgroup of astronauts showed an upward shift of the brain after all long-duration flights (12 astronauts) but not after short-duration flights (6 astronauts) and narrowing of CSF spaces at the vertex after all long-duration flights (12 astronauts) and in 1 of 6 astronauts after short-duration flights. Three astronauts in the long-duration group had optic-disk edema, and all 3 had narrowing of the central sulcus. A cine clip was available for 1 of these 3 astronauts, and the cine clip showed upward shift of the brain.CONCLUSIONS: Narrowing of the central sulcus, upward shift of the brain, and narrowing of CSF spaces at the vertex occurred frequently and predominantly in astronauts after long-duration flights. Further investigation, including repeated postflight imaging conducted after some time on Earth, is required to determine the duration and clinical significance of these changes. (Funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.). labels: #Astronauts#Brain#Cerebral Ventricles#Cerebrum#Humans#Intracranial Pressure#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Middle Aged#Space Flight#Time Factors#Vision Disorders#Weightlessness"
b'BACKGROUND: Among adolescents with type 1 diabetes, rapid increases in albumin excretion during puberty precede the development of microalbuminuria and macroalbuminuria, long-term risk factors for renal and cardiovascular disease. We hypothesized that adolescents with high levels of albumin excretion might benefit from angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and statins, drugs that have not been fully evaluated in adolescents.METHODS: We screened 4407 adolescents with type 1 diabetes between the ages of 10 and 16 years of age and identified 1287 with values in the upper third of the albumin-to-creatinine ratios; 443 were randomly assigned in a placebo-controlled trial of an ACE inhibitor and a statin with the use of a 2-by-2 factorial design minimizing differences in baseline characteristics such as age, sex, and duration of diabetes. The primary outcome for both interventions was the change in albumin excretion, assessed according to the albumin-to-creatinine ratio calculated from three early-morning urine samples obtained every 6 months over 2 to 4 years, and expressed as the area under the curve. Key secondary outcomes included the development of microalbuminuria, progression of retinopathy, changes in the glomerular filtration rate, lipid levels, and measures of cardiovascular risk (carotid intima-media thickness and levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and asymmetric dimethylarginine).RESULTS: The primary outcome was not affected by ACE inhibitor therapy, statin therapy, or the combination of the two. The use of an ACE inhibitor was associated with a lower incidence of microalbuminuria than the use of placebo; in the context of negative findings for the primary outcome and statistical analysis plan, this lower incidence was not considered significant (hazard ratio, 0.57; 95% confidence interval, 0.35 to 0.94). Statin use resulted in significant reductions in total, low-density lipoprotein, and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, in triglyceride levels, and in the ratio of apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A1, whereas neither drug had significant effects on carotid intima-media thickness, other cardiovascular markers, the glomerular filtration rate, or progression of retinopathy. Overall adherence to the drug regimen was 75%, and serious adverse events were similar across the groups.CONCLUSIONS: The use of an ACE inhibitor and a statin did not change the albumin-to-creatinine ratio over time. (Funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and others; AdDIT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01581476 .). labels: #Adolescent#Albuminuria#Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors#Area Under Curve#Child#Creatinine#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Lipids#Male#Medication Adherence'
b'BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder that is caused by an insufficient level of survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. Nusinersen is an antisense oligonucleotide drug that modifies pre-messenger RNA splicing of the SMN2 gene and thus promotes increased production of full-length SMN protein.METHODS: We conducted a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled, phase 3 efficacy and safety trial of nusinersen in infants with spinal muscular atrophy. The primary end points were a motor-milestone response (defined according to results on the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination) and event-free survival (time to death or the use of permanent assisted ventilation). Secondary end points included overall survival and subgroup analyses of event-free survival according to disease duration at screening. Only the first primary end point was tested in a prespecified interim analysis. To control the overall type I error rate at 0.05, a hierarchical testing strategy was used for the second primary end point and the secondary end points in the final analysis.RESULTS: In the interim analysis, a significantly higher percentage of infants in the nusinersen group than in the control group had a motor-milestone response (21 of 51 infants [41%] vs. 0 of 27 [0%], P<0.001), and this result prompted early termination of the trial. In the final analysis, a significantly higher percentage of infants in the nusinersen group than in the control group had a motor-milestone response (37 of 73 infants [51%] vs. 0 of 37 [0%]), and the likelihood of event-free survival was higher in the nusinersen group than in the control group (hazard ratio for death or the use of permanent assisted ventilation, 0.53; P=0.005). The likelihood of overall survival was higher in the nusinersen group than in the control group (hazard ratio for death, 0.37; P=0.004), and infants with a shorter disease duration at screening were more likely than those with a longer disease duration to benefit from nusinersen. The incidence and severity of adverse events were similar in the two groups.CONCLUSIONS: Among infants with spinal muscular atrophy, those who received nusinersen were more likely to be alive and have improvements in motor function than those in the control group. Early treatment may be necessary to maximize the benefit of the drug. (Funded by Biogen and Ionis Pharmaceuticals; ENDEAR ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02193074 .). labels: #Age of Onset#Disease-Free Survival#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Infant#Injections, Spinal#Male#Motor Skills#Oligonucleotides#Oligonucleotides, Antisense#RNA, Messenger#Respiration, Artificial#Spinal Muscular Atrophies of Childhood#Survival Analysis#Survival of Motor Neuron 2 Protein'
b'The Pantanal is a hotspot for arbovirus studies in South America. Various medically important flaviviruses and alphaviruses have been reported in domestic and wild animals in the region. To expand the knowledge of local arbovirus circulation, a serosurvey for 14 Brazilian orthobunyaviruses was conducted with equines, sheep and free-ranging caimans. Sera were tested for specific viral antibodies using plaque-reduction neutralization test (PRNT). Monotypic reactions were detected for Maguari, Xingu, Apeu, Guaroa, Murutucu, Oriboca, Oropouche and Nepuyo viruses. Despite the low titers for most of the orthobunyaviruses tested, the detection of monotypic reactions for eight orthobunyaviruses suggests the Pantanal as a region of great orthobunyavirus diversity. The present data, in conjunction with previous studies that detected a high diversity of other arboviruses, ratify the Pantanal as an important natural reservoir for sylvatic and medically important arboviruses in Brazil. labels: #Alligators and Crocodiles#Animals#Animals, Domestic#Animals, Wild#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antibodies, Viral#Brazil#Bunyaviridae Infections#Horse Diseases#Horses#Orthobunyavirus#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Sheep#Sheep Diseases'
b'Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. This risk is magnified by certain antiretrovirals, particularly the protease inhibitor ritonavir, but the pathophysiology of this connection is unknown. We postulated that a major mechanism for antiretroviral-associated cardiac disease is pathologic fibrosis linked to platelet activation with release and activation of transforming growth factor (TGF)-\xce\xb21, and that these changes could be modeled in a murine system. We also sought to intervene utilizing inhaled carbon monoxide (CO) as proof-of-concept for therapeutics capable of regulating TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling and collagen autophagy. We demonstrate decreased cardiac function indices, including cardiac output, ejection fraction and stroke volume, and prominent cardiac fibrosis, in mice exposed to pharmacological doses of ritonavir. Cardiac output and fibrosis correlated with plasma TGF-\xce\xb21 levels. Mice with targeted deletion of TGF-\xce\xb21 in megakaryocytes/platelets (PF4CreTgfb1flox/flox) were partially protected from ritonavir-induced cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis. Inhalation of low dose CO (250ppm), used as a surrogate for upregulation of inducible heme oxygenase/endogenous CO pathways, suppressed ritonavir-induced cardiac fibrosis. This occurred in association with modulation of canonical (Smad2) and non-canonical (p38) TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling pathways. In addition, CO treatment suppressed the M1 pro-inflammatory subset of macrophages and increased M2c regulatory cells in the hearts of RTV-exposed animals. The effects of CO were dependent upon autophagy as CO did not mitigate ritonavir-induced fibrosis in autophagy-deficient LC3-/- mice. These results suggest that platelet-derived TGF-\xce\xb21 contributes to ritonavir-associated cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, extending the relevance of our findings to other antiretrovirals that also activate platelets. The anti-fibrotic effects of CO are linked to alterations in TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling and autophagy, suggesting a proof-of-concept for novel interventions in HIV/antiretroviral therapy-mediated cardiovascular disease. labels: #Animals#Blood Platelets#Carbon Monoxide#Cardiac Output#Echocardiography#Fibrosis#HIV Protease Inhibitors#Heart Diseases#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Myocardium#Ritonavir#Stroke Volume#Transforming Growth Factor beta1'
b'Asthma represents an episodic and fluctuating behavior characterized with decreased complexity of respiratory dynamics. Several evidence indicate that asthma severity or control is associated with alteration in variability of lung function. The pathophysiological basis of alteration in complexity of breathing pattern in asthma has remained poorly understood. Regarding the point that Rho-kinase is involved in pathophysiology of asthma, in present study we investigated the effect of Rho-kinase inhibition on complexity of respiratory dynamics in a guinea pig model of asthma. Male Dunkin Hartley guinea pigs were exposed to 12 series of inhalations with ovalbumin or saline. Animals were treated by the Rho-kinase inhibitor Y-27632 (1mM aerosols) prior to each allergen challenge. We recorded respiration of conscious animals using whole-body plethysmography. Exposure to ovalbumin induced lung inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness and remodeling including goblet cell hyperplasia, increase in the thickness of airways smooth muscles and subepithelial collagen deposition. Complexity analysis of respiratory dynamics revealed a dramatic decrease in irregularity of respiratory rhythm representing less complexity in asthmatic guinea pigs. Inhibition of Rho-kinase reduced the airway remodeling and hyperreponsiveness, but had no significant effect on lung inflammation and complexity of respiratory dynamics in asthmatic animals. It seems that airway hyperresponsiveness and remodeling do not significantly affect the complexity of respiratory dynamics. Our results suggest that inflammation might be the probable cause of shift in the respiratory dynamics away from the normal fluctuation in asthma. labels: #Amides#Animals#Asthma#Disease Models, Animal#Guinea Pigs#Male#Plethysmography, Whole Body#Pyridines#Respiration#Respiratory Physiological Phenomena#rho-Associated Kinases'
b"This study aimed to explore an evidence-based nursing practice model of CRF management in hospitalized adult patients using the PARIHS evidence-implementation framework as the theoretical structure to provide guidance for similar nursing practices. The implementation of guideline evidence into clinical practice was conducted on the oncology and radiotherapy wards of a university-affiliated hospital. The process of integrating the guideline into the symptom management system of cancer patients was described. The impact of the evidence implementation was evaluated from three aspects: organizational innovations and outcome measures associated with nurses and with patients pre- and post-evidence implementation. During the implementation of evidence into practice on the wards, a nursing process, health education, a quality control sheet and CRF training courses were established. Through this implementation, compliance with evidence related to CRF increased significantly on the two wards, with that of ward B being higher than that of ward A. Regarding nursing outcomes, nursing knowledge, attitude and behavior scores with respect to CRF nursing care increased substantially after its application on the two wards, and the ward B nurses' scoring was higher than that of the ward A nurses. Qualitative analysis concerning the nurses suggested that leadership, patient concern about CRF management, and the need for professional development were the main motivators of the application, whereas the shortage and mobility of nursing human resources and insufficient communication between doctors and nurses were the main barriers. Additionally, most nurses felt more professional and confident about their work. Regarding patient outcomes, patient knowledge, attitude and behavior scores regarding CRF self-management increased significantly. Patients' post-implementation CRF was alleviated compared with the pre-implementation treatment cycle. The PARIHS framework may provide instructive guidance for the incorporation of evidence into practice, and the process-oriented framework might provide greater operational utility of the application. labels: #Adult#Attitude of Health Personnel#Evidence-Based Nursing#Fatigue#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoplasms#Oncology Nursing#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'Recent developments in high throughput genomic assays have opened up the possibility of testing hundreds and thousands of genes simultaneously. However, adhering to the regular statistical assumptions regarding the null distributions of test statistics in such large-scale multiple testing frameworks has the potential of leading to incorrect significance testing results and biased inference. This problem gets worse when one combines results from different independent genomic experiments with a possibility of ending up with gross false discoveries of significant genes. In this article, we develop a meta-analysis method of combining p-values from different independent experiments involving large-scale multiple testing frameworks, through empirical adjustments of the individual test statistics and p-values. Even though, it is based on various existing ideas, this specific combination is novel and potentially useful. Through simulation studies and real genomic datasets we show that our method outperforms the standard meta-analysis approach of significance testing in terms of accurately identifying the truly significant set of genes. labels: #Data Interpretation, Statistical#Empirical Research#Gene Expression#Genes#Genomics#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Meta-Analysis as Topic#Models, Statistical#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis#Statistics as Topic'
b'BACKGROUND: Sleep-related problems are known risk factors for road accidents. However, very few studies have investigated the role played by insomnia and its components, and no data are available for a population of occupational drivers at risk, such as the truck driver category.OBJECTIVE: To measure the prevalence and impact of insomnia on motor vehicle accidents (MVAs) and near-miss accidents (NMAs) in 949 truck drivers.DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey.RESULTS: Insomnia affected 27.5% of the sample. Compared to other drivers, in the 3 years prior to the study, truck drivers with insomnia had reported a significantly higher number of MVAs; they had also reported a greater number of NMAs in the previous 6 months. After correction for the presence of obstructive sleep apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness, short sleep duration, and other concurrent diseases, insomniac truck drivers had an almost two-fold risk of driving accidents (OR: 1.82, CI 95%:1.33-2.49) and a more than three-fold increased risk of near-miss accidents (OR: 3.35, CI95%:2.06-5.45) compared to non-insomniac drivers.CONCLUSION: Insomnia emerged as an independent risk factor for MVAs and NMAs. We strongly advise screening commercial drivers for signs and symptoms of insomnia in order to improve health and safety on the road. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Automobile Driving#Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Vehicles#Occupational Diseases#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'Laboratory mice play a tremendous role in biomedical research in studies on immunology, infection, cancer and therapy. In the course of standardization of mice used in animal experiments, health monitoring constitutes an important instrument towards microbiological standardization. Infections with murine astroviruses (MuAstV) were only recently discovered and are, therefore, still relatively unknown in laboratory animal science. In rodent health monitoring viral infections within a population are commonly assessed in terms of specific antibodies by serological testing, as active infection and excretion of virus is often temporary and can easily be missed. So far only ongoing infections with astroviruses can be detected by PCR. The objective of this work was the development of a sensitive and specific MuAstV multiplex serological assay with a high-throughput capability to be used in routine testing of laboratory mice. Four different MuAstV proteins were recombinantly expressed and used as antigens. The best reacting antigen, the capsid spike protein VP27, was selected and tested with a panel of 400 sera of mice from units with a known MuAstV status. Assay sensitivity and specificity resulted in 98.5% and 100%, respectively, compared to RT-PCR results. Eventually this assay was used to test 5529 serum samples in total, during routine diagnostics at the German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) in Heidelberg between 2015 and 2017. High sero-prevalence rates of up to 98% were detected in units with open cages indicating that the virus is highly infectious and circulates within these populations virtually infecting all animals regardless of the mouse strain. In addition, data collected from 312 mice purchased from commercial breeders and from 661 mice from 58 research institutes in 15 countries worldwide allowed the conclusion that MuAstV is widespread in contemporary laboratory mouse populations. labels: #Animals#Animals, Laboratory#Antibodies, Viral#Astroviridae#Astroviridae Infections#Mice#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sensitivity and Specificity#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Serologic Tests'
b'Adenocarcinoma of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) is a severe disease. Patients carrying EGFR mutations may benefit from EGFR targeted therapies (e.g.: gefitinib). Recently, it has been shown that sialidase NEU3 directly interacts and regulates EGFR. In this work, we investigate the effect of sialidase NEU3 overexpression on EGFR pathways activation and EGFR targeted therapies sensitivity, in a series of lung cancer cell lines. NEU3 overexpression, forced after transfection, does not affect NSCLC cell viability. We demonstrate that NEU3 overexpression stimulates the ERK pathway but this activation is completely abolished by gefitinib treatment. The Akt pathway is also hyper-activated upon NEU3 overexpression, but gefitinib is able only to decrease, and not to abolish, such activation. These findings indicate that NEU3 can act directly on the ERK pathway through EGFR and both directly and indirectly with respect to EGFR on the Akt pathway. Furthermore, we provide evidence that a healthy mucosa cell line (with EGFR wild-type gene sequence) is slightly sensitive to gefitinib, especially in the presence of NEU3 overexpression, thus hypothesizing that NEU3 overexpressing patients may benefit from EGFR targeted therapies also in absence of EGFR point mutations. Overall, the expression of NEU3 may be a novel diagnostic marker in NSCLC because, by its ability to stimulate EGFR downstream pathways with direct and indirect mechanisms, it may help in the identification of patients who can profit from EGFR targeted therapies in absence of EGFR activating mutations or from new combinations of EGFR and Akt inhibitors. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Blotting, Western#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Membrane#Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Neuraminidase#Protein-Tyrosine Kinases#Quinazolines#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction'
b'Recent studies have highlighted the importance of local environmental factors to determine the fine-scale heterogeneity of malaria transmission and exposure to the vector. In this work, we compare a classical GLM model with backward selection with different versions of an automatic LASSO-based algorithm with 2-level cross-validation aiming to build a predictive model of the space and time dependent individual exposure to the malaria vector, using entomological and environmental data from a cohort study in Benin. Although the GLM can outperform the LASSO model with appropriate engineering, the best model in terms of predictive power was found to be the LASSO-based model. Our approach can be adapted to different topics and may therefore be helpful to address prediction issues in other health sciences domains. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Anopheles#Humans#Malaria#Models, Statistical'
b"INTRODUCTION: Primary Sj\xc3\xb6gren's Syndrome (pSS) affects exocrine glands such as those producing the tear film, leading to dry and painful eyes, but is also associated with fatigue. The experience of fatigue in pSS, and its relationship with sicca symptoms, is poorly understood.METHODS: Twenty people diagnosed with pSS were recruited to participate in a semi-structured qualitative interview about their symptoms experience. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim and analysed using thematic analysis.RESULTS: People with pSS described physical tiredness, mental fatigue and ocular fatigue. Mental fatigue was characterised by difficulties in attention, particularly, the ability to follow conversations and short-term memory problems. Participants linked their experience of fatigue to feeling of depression, frustration, irritation and anxiety, and therefore, fatigue was suggested to have had a large impact on their psychological well-being. People with pSS also described a range of ocular symptoms including pain, dryness, and itching, which were compounded by fatigue. For some, eye fatigue was pervasive, and daily activities involving the eyes such as reading, using the computer and driving were impaired. In some cases, the level of ocular discomfort was so severe it prevented sleep, which in turn impacted on general fatigue levels.CONCLUSIONS: People with pSS experience fatigue in a range of ways; physical, mental and ocular fatigue were described. Fatigue was suggested to exacerbate other ocular symptoms, posed serious physical limitations and caused psychological distress. Further research into the nature of fatigue and ocular symptoms in pSS is required. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asthenopia#Fatigue#Female#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Middle Aged#Qualitative Research#Sjogren's Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'Wing morphology strongly affects flight performance which may consequently decline during feather moult due to the creation of feather gaps in the wing. Hence, the size and shape of moult-related wing gap may directly affect flight capacity. Here I examined the rare divergent primary moult sequence compared to the more common descendant moult sequence. In the divergent moult, the focus of primary moult is shifted from P1 (primary feather numbered descendantly) to another primary between P2 and P5, and then primaries are moulted in two concurrent waves, one descendant and the other ascendant. The result of this rare moult sequence is the splitting of the wing gap to two smaller gaps. Using a large moult database including 6,763 individuals of 32 Western Palaearctic passerine species, I found evidence of divergent moult only among 27 individuals of 12 species. I examined the speed of wing-feather moult for each individual that moulted divergently compared to a control group of individuals at the same moult stage which moulted following the common descending sequence. The results indicate that the sequence of primary moult and moult speed are correlated. Individuals which moulted divergently moulted their primaries with higher moult speed than descendant moulters. The applicability of this study is weakened by the dearth of moult data, thus making it difficult to draw conclusions for a large range of species. Ornithologists and bird ringers are therefore encouraged to collect more basic moult data during their field study. labels: #Animals#Feathers#Flight, Animal#Israel#Molting#Passeriformes#Songbirds#Time Factors#Wings, Animal'
b'Vitamin D is a secosteroid hormone with many varied functions including regulation of blood calcium levels, cell proliferation, immunity, and reproduction in mammals. Vitamin D is activated by 25-hydroxylase (CYP2R1) and 1-alpha-hydroxylase (CYP27B1) and is degraded by 24-hydroxylase (CYP24A1). Vitamin D is transported by vitamin D-binding protein (group-specific component, GC) through the bloodstream and regulates cellular actions by binding to vitamin D receptor (VDR). In this study, we determined the expression and regulation of vitamin D-related molecules and the role of vitamin D at the maternal-conceptus interface in pigs. Vitamin D-metabolizing enzymes CYP2R1, CYP27B1, and CYP24A1, vitamin D binding protein GC, and vitamin D receptor VDR were expressed in the endometrium in a pregnancy stage-specific manner as well as in conceptus and chorioallantoic tissues during pregnancy. VDR protein was localized to endometrial and trophoblastic cells. Concentrations of calcitriol, the active form of vitamin D, in the endometrial tissues were higher during early pregnancy than in mid- to late pregnancy, while plasma concentrations of calcitriol were highest during late pregnancy. Furthermore, calcitriol affected the expression of several genes related to conceptus implantation, vitamin D metabolism, calcium ion regulation, PG metabolism, and calcium-binding proteins in endometrial tissue explants. These results show that CYP2R1, CYP27B1, CYP24A1, GC, and VDR were expressed at the maternal-conceptus interface, endometrial calcitriol levels were regulated during pregnancy, and calcitriol modulated the expression of endometrial genes, suggesting that calcitriol may play an important role in the establishment and maintenance of pregnancy by regulating endometrial function in pigs. labels: #25-Hydroxyvitamin D3 1-alpha-Hydroxylase#Animals#Cholestanetriol 26-Monooxygenase#Chorioallantoic Membrane#Endometrium#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Pregnancy#Receptors, Calcitriol#Swine#Vitamin D#Vitamin D-Binding Protein#Vitamin D3 24-Hydroxylase'
b'BACKGROUND: Besides inclusion in 1st line regimens against tuberculosis (TB), pyrazinamide (PZA) is used in 2nd line anti-TB regimens, including in the short regimen for multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) patients. Guidelines and expert opinions are contradictory about inclusion of PZA in case of resistance. Moreover, drug susceptibility testing (DST) for PZA is not often applied in routine testing, and the prevalence of resistance is unknown in several regions, including in most African countries.METHODS: Six hundred and twenty-three culture isolates from rifampicin-resistant (RR) patients were collected in twelve Sub-Saharan African countries. Among those isolates, 71% were from patients included in the study on the Union short-course regimen for MDR-TB in Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central Africa Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Niger, and Rwanda PZA resistance, and the rest (29%) were consecutive isolates systematically stored from 2014-2015 in Mali, Rwanda, Senegal, and Togo. Besides national guidelines, the isolates were tested for PZA resistance through pncA gene sequencing.RESULTS: Over half of these RR-TB isolates (54%) showed a mutation in the pncA gene, with a significant heterogeneity between countries. Isolates with fluoroquinolone resistance (but not with injectable resistance or XDR) were more likely to have concurrent PZA resistance. The pattern of mutations in the pncA gene was quite diverse, although some isolates with an identical pattern of mutations in pncA and other drug-related genes were isolated from the same reference center, suggesting possible transmission of these strains.CONCLUSION: Similar to findings in other regions, more than half of the patients having RR-TB in West and Central Africa present concomitant resistance to PZA. Further investigations are needed to understand the relation between resistance to PZA and resistance to fluoroquinolones, and whether continued use of PZA in the face of PZA resistance provides clinical benefit to the patients. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Africa South of the Sahara#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Amidohydrolases#Antitubercular Agents#Child#Drug Resistance, Multiple, Bacterial#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Pyrazinamide#Rifampin#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary#Young Adult'
b"Panoramic views of natural environments provide visually navigating animals with two kinds of information: they define locations because image differences increase smoothly with distance from a reference location and they provide compass information, because image differences increase smoothly with rotation away from a reference orientation. The range over which a given reference image can provide navigational guidance (its 'catchment area') has to date been quantified from the perspective of walking animals by determining how image differences develop across the ground plane of natural habitats. However, to understand the information available to flying animals there is a need to characterize the 'catchment volumes' within which panoramic snapshots can provide navigational guidance. We used recently developed camera-based methods for constructing 3D models of natural environments and rendered panoramic views at defined locations within these models with the aim of mapping navigational information in three dimensions. We find that in relatively open woodland habitats, catchment volumes are surprisingly large extending for metres depending on the sensitivity of the viewer to image differences. The size and the shape of catchment volumes depend on the distance of visual features in the environment. Catchment volumes are smaller for reference images close to the ground and become larger for reference images at some distance from the ground and in more open environments. Interestingly, catchment volumes become smaller when only above horizon views are used and also when views include a 1 km distant panorama. We discuss the current limitations of mapping navigational information in natural environments and the relevance of our findings for our understanding of visual navigation in animals and autonomous robots. labels: #Animals#Ecosystem#Environment#Models, Theoretical#Photography#Spatial Navigation"
b'BACKGROUND: Despite the immense literature related to diverse human electroencephalographic (EEG) parameters, very few studies have focused on the reliability of these measures. Some of the most studied components (i.e., P3 or MMN) have received more attention regarding the stability of their main parameters, such as latency, amplitude or topography. However, spectral modulations have not been as extensively evaluated considering that different analysis methods are available. The main aim of the present study is to assess the reliability of the latency, amplitude and topography of event-related desynchronization (ERD) for the alpha band (10-14 Hz) observed in a cognitive task (visual oddball). Topography reliability was analysed at different levels (for the group, within-subjects individually and between-subjects individually).RESULTS: The latency for alpha ERD showed stable behaviour between two sessions, and the amplitude exhibited an increment (more negative) in the second session. Alpha ERD topography exhibited a high correlation score between sessions at the group level (r = 0.903, p<0.001). The mean value for within-subject correlations was 0.750 (with a range from 0.391 to 0.954). Regarding between-subject topography comparisons, some subjects showed a highly specific topography, whereas other subjects showed topographies that were more similar to those of other subjects.CONCLUSION: ERD was mainly stable between the two sessions with the exception of amplitude, which exhibited an increment in the second session. Topography exhibits excellent reliability at the group level; however, it exhibits highly heterogeneous behaviour at the individual level. Considering that the P3 was previously evaluated for this group of subjects, a direct comparison of the correlation scores was possible, and it showed that the ERD component is less reliable in individual topography than in the ERP component (P3). labels: #Adult#Alpha Rhythm#Brain#Cognition#Electroencephalography#Electroencephalography Phase Synchronization#Evoked Potentials#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Reproducibility of Results#Young Adult'
b'Neuroprosthetics research in amputee patients aims at developing new prostheses that move and feel like real limbs. Targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation (TMSR) is such an approach and consists of rerouting motor and sensory nerves from the residual limb towards intact muscles and skin regions. Movement of the myoelectric prosthesis is enabled via decoded electromyography activity from reinnervated muscles and touch sensation on the missing limb is enabled by stimulation of the reinnervated skin areas. Here we ask whether and how motor control and redirected somatosensory stimulation provided via TMSR affected the maps of the upper limb in primary motor (M1) and primary somatosensory (S1) cortex, as well as their functional connections. To this aim, we tested three TMSR patients and investigated the extent, strength, and topographical organization of the missing limb and several control body regions in M1 and S1 at ultra high-field (7 T) functional magnetic resonance imaging. Additionally, we analysed the functional connectivity between M1 and S1 and of both these regions with fronto-parietal regions, known to be important for multisensory upper limb processing. These data were compared with those of control amputee patients (n = 6) and healthy controls (n = 12). We found that M1 maps of the amputated limb in TMSR patients were similar in terms of extent, strength, and topography to healthy controls and different from non-TMSR patients. S1 maps of TMSR patients were also more similar to normal conditions in terms of topographical organization and extent, as compared to non-targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation patients, but weaker in activation strength compared to healthy controls. Functional connectivity in TMSR patients between upper limb maps in M1 and S1 was comparable with healthy controls, while being reduced in non-TMSR patients. However, connectivity was reduced between S1 and fronto-parietal regions, in both the TMSR and non-TMSR patients with respect to healthy controls. This was associated with the absence of a well-established multisensory effect (visual enhancement of touch) in TMSR patients. Collectively, these results show how M1 and S1 process signals related to movement and touch are enabled by targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation. Moreover, they suggest that TMSR may counteract maladaptive cortical plasticity typically found after limb loss, in M1, partially in S1, and in their mutual connectivity. The lack of multisensory interaction in the present data suggests that further engineering advances are necessary (e.g. the integration of somatosensory feedback into current prostheses) to enable prostheses that move and feel as real limbs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Amputation#Artificial Limbs#Brain Mapping#Electromyography#Female#Functional Neuroimaging#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Cortex#Movement#Muscle, Skeletal#Neuronal Plasticity#Skin#Somatosensory Cortex#Touch#Upper Extremity'
b'The presynaptic, high-affinity choline transporter is a critical determinant of signalling by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at both central and peripheral cholinergic synapses, including the neuromuscular junction. Here we describe an autosomal recessive presynaptic congenital myasthenic syndrome presenting with a broad clinical phenotype due to homozygous choline transporter missense mutations. The clinical phenotype ranges from the classical presentation of a congenital myasthenic syndrome in one patient (p.Pro210Leu), to severe neurodevelopmental delay with brain atrophy (p.Ser94Arg) and extend the clinical outcomes to a more severe spectrum with infantile lethality (p.Val112Glu). Cells transfected with mutant transporter construct revealed a virtually complete loss of transport activity that was paralleled by a reduction in transporter cell surface expression. Consistent with these findings, studies to determine the impact of gene mutations on the trafficking of the Caenorhabditis elegans choline transporter orthologue revealed deficits in transporter export to axons and nerve terminals. These findings contrast with our previous findings in autosomal dominant distal hereditary motor neuropathy of a dominant-negative frameshift mutation at the C-terminus of choline transporter that was associated with significantly reduced, but not completely abrogated choline transporter function. Together our findings define divergent neuropathological outcomes arising from different classes of choline transporter mutation with distinct disease processes and modes of inheritance. These findings underscore the essential role played by the choline transporter in sustaining acetylcholine neurotransmission at both central and neuromuscular synapses, with important implications for treatment and drug selection. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Atrophy#Axons#Brain#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Child, Preschool#Female#HEK293 Cells#Homozygote#Humans#Infant#Male#Membrane Transport Proteins#Mutation, Missense#Myasthenic Syndromes, Congenital#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Pedigree#Presynaptic Terminals#Protein Transport#Symporters'
b"Objectives: To describe the disease characteristics, continuous course and long-term outcome and to evaluate predictors of outcome in JIA in Greece.Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort analysis of 17 years' prospective data on JIA. Outcome assessment included radiographic (modified Sharp-van der Heidje score), articular and extra-articular damage (Juvenile Arthritis Damage Index), functional ability (HAQ Disability Index), and the cumulative percentage time spent in a state of active disease and also in clinical remission off medication (CR) (according to Wallace's criteria).Results: One hundred and two (72 females) patients under regular follow-up were enrolled. The disease age of onset [mean (SD)] was 7.7 (4) years, the interval from onset to last visit was 17.2 (6.7) years and the patients' current age was 25 (5.9) years. At the last follow-up visit, 53 patients (52%) had disease activity, while 23.5% were in CR. The cumulative percentage time spent in a state of active disease and CR over the disease course was 52.6 and 17.8%, respectively. Polyarticular subtype of onset and longer disease activity during the first 5 years were independent predictors of worse outcome. Additional telephone-based interviews of 205 former JIA patients who had been lost to follow-up as adults were performed to extend the interpretation of our findings to a broader JIA population. Almost half (47.6%) of the total cohort of 307 patients were found to be in CR at the final evaluation and 69.7% had no disability.Conclusion: The available data indicate that JIA as a whole is a heterogeneous disease with significant variability in course and long-term outcome. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Adolescent#Adult#Antibodies, Antinuclear#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Juvenile#Blood Sedimentation#C-Reactive Protein#Cohort Studies#Disease Progression#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Greece#Humans#Male#Peptides, Cyclic#Prognosis#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors#Uveitis#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: Clinicians treating older patients with bipolar disorder with mood stabilizers need evidence from age-specific randomized controlled trials. The authors describe findings from a first such study of late-life mania.METHOD: The authors compared the tolerability and efficacy of lithium carbonate and divalproex in 224 inpatients and outpatients age 60 or older with bipolar I disorder who presented with a manic, hypomanic, or mixed episode. Participants were randomly assigned, under double-blind conditions, to treatment with lithium (target serum concentration, 0.80-0.99 mEq/L) or divalproex (target serum valproate concentration, 80-99 \xce\xbcg/mL) for 9 weeks. Participants with an inadequate response after 3 weeks received open adjunctive risperidone. The authors hypothesized that divalproex would be better tolerated and more efficacious than lithium. Tolerability was assessed based on a measure of sedation and on the proportions of participants achieving target concentrations. Efficacy was assessed with the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS).RESULTS: Attrition rates were similar for lithium and divalproex (14% and 18% at week 3 and 51% and 44% at week 9, respectively). The groups did not differ significantly in sedation. Participants in the lithium group tended to experience more tremor. Similar proportions of participants in the lithium and divalproex groups achieved target concentrations (57% and 56%, respectively). A longitudinal mixed model of improvement (change from baseline in YMRS score) favored lithium (change in score, 3.90; 97.5% CI=1.71, 6.09). Nine-week response rates did not differ significantly between the lithium and divalproex groups (79% and 73%, respectively). The need for adjunctive risperidone was low and similar between groups (17% and 14%, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Both lithium and divalproex were adequately tolerated and efficacious; lithium was associated with a greater reduction in mania scores over 9 weeks. labels: #Aged#Antimanic Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Bipolar Disorder#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Lithium Carbonate#Male#Middle Aged#Risperidone#Treatment Outcome#Valproic Acid'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine if circulating concentrations of vitamin D are causally associated with risk of cancer.Design\xc2\xa0Mendelian randomisation study.Setting\xc2\xa0Large genetic epidemiology networks (the Genetic Associations and Mechanisms in Oncology (GAME-ON), the Genetic and Epidemiology of Colorectal Cancer Consortium (GECCO), and the Prostate Cancer Association Group to Investigate Cancer Associated Alterations in the Genome (PRACTICAL) consortiums, and the MR-Base platform).Participants\xc2\xa070\xe2\x80\x89563 cases of cancer (22\xe2\x80\x89898 prostate cancer, 15\xe2\x80\x89748 breast cancer, 12\xe2\x80\x89537 lung cancer, 11\xe2\x80\x89488 colorectal cancer, 4369 ovarian cancer, 1896 pancreatic cancer, and 1627 neuroblastoma) and 84\xe2\x80\x89418 controls.Exposures\xc2\xa0Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (rs2282679, rs10741657, rs12785878 and rs6013897) associated with vitamin D were used to define a multi-polymorphism score for circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations.Main outcomes measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcomes were the risk of incident colorectal, breast, prostate, ovarian, lung, and pancreatic cancer and neuroblastoma, which was evaluated with an inverse variance weighted average of the associations with specific polymorphisms and a likelihood based approach. Secondary outcomes based on cancer subtypes by sex, anatomic location, stage, and histology were also examined.Results\xc2\xa0There was little evidence that the multi-polymorphism score of 25(OH)D was associated with risk of any of the seven cancers or their subtypes. Specifically, the odds ratios per 25 nmol/L increase in genetically determined 25(OH)D concentrations were 0.92 (95% confidence interval 0.76 to 1.10) for colorectal cancer, 1.05 (0.89 to 1.24) for breast cancer, 0.89 (0.77 to 1.02) for prostate cancer, and 1.03 (0.87 to 1.23) for lung cancer. The results were consistent with the two different analytical approaches, and the study was powered to detect relative effect sizes of moderate magnitude (for example, 1.20-1.50 per 25 nmol/L decrease in 25(OH)D for most primary cancer outcomes. The Mendelian randomisation assumptions did not seem to be violated.Conclusions\xc2\xa0There is little evidence for a linear causal association between circulating vitamin D concentration and risk of various types of cancer, though the existence of causal clinically relevant effects of low magnitude cannot be ruled out. These results, in combination with previous literature, provide evidence that population-wide screening for vitamin D deficiency and subsequent widespread vitamin D supplementation should not currently be recommended as a strategy for primary cancer prevention. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Case-Control Studies#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Incidence#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Mendelian Randomization Analysis#Neoplasms#Neuroblastoma#Ovarian Neoplasms#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk Assessment#Vitamin D#Vitamin D Deficiency'
b"OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness and population impact of the national implementation of the Study of Technology to Accelerate Research (STAR) intervention for childhood obesity.METHODS: In the STAR cluster-randomized trial, 6- to 12-year-old children with obesity seen at pediatric practices with electronic health record (EHR)-based decision support for primary care providers and self-guided behavior-change support for parents had significantly smaller increases in BMI than children who received usual care. We used a microsimulation model of a national implementation of STAR from 2015 to 2025 among all pediatric primary care providers in the United States with fully functional EHRs to estimate cost, impact on obesity prevalence, and cost-effectiveness.RESULTS: The expected population reach of a 10-year national implementation is \xe2\x88\xbc2 million children, with intervention costs of $119 per child and $237 per BMI unit reduced. At 10 years, assuming maintenance of effect, the intervention is expected to avert 43\xe2\x80\x89000 cases and 226\xe2\x80\x89000 life-years with obesity at a net cost of $4085 per case and $774 per life-year with obesity averted. Limiting implementation to large practices and using higher estimates of EHR adoption improved both cost-effectiveness and reach, whereas decreasing the maintenance of the intervention's effect worsened the former.CONCLUSIONS: A childhood obesity intervention with electronic decision support for clinicians and self-guided behavior-change support for parents may be more cost-effective than previous clinical interventions. Effective and efficient interventions that target children with obesity are necessary and could work in synergy with population-level prevention strategies to accelerate progress in reducing obesity prevalence. labels: #Body Mass Index#Child#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Decision Making, Computer-Assisted#Early Medical Intervention#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Male#Pediatric Obesity#United States"
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Growth is an important criterion to evaluate health in childhood and adolescence, especially in patients depending on special dietary treatment. Phenylketonuria (PKU) is the most common inherited disease of amino acid metabolism. Patients with PKU depend on a special phenylalanine-restricted diet, low in natural protein. The study aimed to evaluate growth, growth rate, and target height in 224 patients with PKU.METHODS: Retrospective, longitudinal analysis of standardized, yearly measurements of height, weight, and calculated growth rate (SD score [SDS]) of patients with PKU aged 0 to 18 years were conducted by using the national computerized CrescNet database. Inclusion was restricted to patients carried to term with a confirmed diagnosis of PKU or mild hyperphenylalaninemia determined by newborn screening and early treatment initiation.RESULTS: From birth to adulthood, patients with PKU were significantly shorter than healthy German children (height SDS at 18 years: -0.882 \xc2\xb1 0.108,P<.001). They missed their target height by 3 cm by adulthood (women:P= .02) and 5 cm (men:P= .01). In patients receiving casein hydrolysate during childhood, this was more pronounced compared with patients receiving amino acid mixtures (P<.001). Growth rate was significantly reduced during their first 2 years of life and in puberty (growth rate SDS: -1.1 to -0.5 m/year,P<.001 and -0.5;P<.02).CONCLUSIONS: Early diagnosed, treated, and continuously monitored patients with PKU showed reduced height from birth onward. During the last 2 decades, this phenomenon attenuated, probably because of advances in PKU therapy related to protein supplements and special low-protein foods. labels: #Adolescent#Body Height#Body Weight#Child#Child Development#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Dietary Proteins#Female#Germany#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Phenylketonurias#Retrospective Studies'
b'PARP inhibitors (PARPi) kill BRCA1/2-mutated cancers, which become resistant when DNA repair functions are restored. Now, MUS81 nuclease inhibition due to EZH2 downregulation is found to restore DNA replication fork protection but not repair, leading to PARPi-resistance in mutant BRCA2 cells and patients. This challenges the DNA repair dominance in synthetic lethality. labels: #BRCA1 Protein#BRCA2 Protein#DNA Damage#DNA Repair#DNA Replication#Down-Regulation#Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein#Humans#Neoplasms#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases'
b'Organoids are a powerful tool to study both physiological and disease processes. A completely synthetic matrix assembled from exchangeable modular parts has been developed and not only supports proliferation of human intestinal organoids derived from pluripotent embryonic stem cells, but also augments subsequent ad vivo implantation into injured murine colon. labels: #Animals#Cell Differentiation#Embryonic Stem Cells#Humans#Intestines#Organoids#Pluripotent Stem Cells#Prostheses and Implants#Regeneration'
b'A variety of non-coding RNAs have been reported as endogenous sponges for cancer-modulating miRNAs. However, miRNA trapping by transcripts with protein-coding functions is less understood. The mRNA of TYRP1 is now found to sequester the tumour suppressor miR-16 on non-canonical miRNA response elements in melanoma, thereby promoting malignant growth. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Melanoma#Membrane Glycoproteins#MicroRNAs#Oxidoreductases#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b"With the aim to create a library of compounds with potential bioactivities by combining special characteristics of two important groups such as nucleobases and carbohydrates, twenty 1,4-disubstituted-triazole nucleosides were synthesized in good yields (80-94%) using the copper catalyzed 'Click' reaction between azido-modified pento- or hexopyranoses and alkyne-bearing pyrimidine or purine nucleobases. Structural elucidation was made with the assistance of spectroscopic techniques such as FTIR, 1D-, 2D-NMR, and ESI-TOFMS. All the synthesized triazole nucleosides were evaluated for their cytotoxic activity against three human cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231, Hep3B, PC-3) by using the MTT assay. Particularly, compounds 3a and 1b were identified as potential hits against Hep3B cell. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Humans#Purine Nucleosides#Pyrans#Pyrimidine Nucleosides#Triazoles"
b'Vocal learning, the substrate of human language acquisition, has rarely been described in other mammals. Often, group-specific vocal dialects in wild populations provide the main evidence for vocal learning. While social learning is often the most plausible explanation for these intergroup differences, it is usually impossible to exclude other driving factors, such as genetic or ecological backgrounds. Here, we show the formation of dialects through social vocal learning in fruit bats under controlled conditions. We raised 3 groups of pups in conditions mimicking their natural roosts. Namely, pups could hear their mothers\' vocalizations but were also exposed to a manipulation playback. The vocalizations in the 3 playbacks mainly differed in their fundamental frequency. From the age of approximately 6 months and onwards, the pups demonstrated distinct dialects, where each group was biased towards its playback. We demonstrate the emergence of dialects through social learning in a mammalian model in a tightly controlled environment. Unlike in the extensively studied case of songbirds where specific tutors are imitated, we demonstrate that bats do not only learn their vocalizations directly from their mothers, but that they are actually influenced by the sounds of the entire crowd. This process, which we term "crowd vocal learning," might be relevant to many other social animals such as cetaceans and pinnipeds. labels: #Acoustics#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Auditory Perception#Chiroptera#Female#Learning#Vocalization, Animal'
b'BACKGROUND: Gonorrhoea is one of the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infections in England. Over 41,000 cases were recorded in 2015, more than half of which occurred in men who have sex with men (MSM). As the bacterium has developed resistance to each first-line antibiotic in turn, we need an improved understanding of fitness benefits and costs of antibiotic resistance to inform control policy and planning. Cefixime was recommended as a single-dose treatment for gonorrhoea from 2005 to 2010, during which time resistance increased, and subsequently declined.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed a stochastic compartmental model representing the natural history and transmission of cefixime-sensitive and cefixime-resistant strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae in MSM in England, which was applied to data on diagnoses and prescriptions between 2008 and 2015. We estimated that asymptomatic carriers play a crucial role in overall transmission dynamics, with 37% (95% credible interval CrI 24%-52%) of infections remaining asymptomatic and untreated, accounting for 89% (95% CrI 82%-93%) of onward transmission. The fitness cost of cefixime resistance in the absence of cefixime usage was estimated to be such that the number of secondary infections caused by resistant strains is only about half as much as for the susceptible strains, which is insufficient to maintain persistence. However, we estimated that treatment of cefixime-resistant strains with cefixime was unsuccessful in 83% (95% CrI 53%-99%) of cases, representing a fitness benefit of resistance. This benefit was large enough to counterbalance the fitness cost when 31% (95% CrI 26%-36%) of cases were treated with cefixime, and when more than 55% (95% CrI 44%-66%) of cases were treated with cefixime, the resistant strain had a net fitness advantage over the susceptible strain. Limitations include sparse data leading to large intervals on key model parameters and necessary assumptions in the modelling of a complex epidemiological process.CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides, to our knowledge, the first estimates of the fitness cost and benefit associated with resistance of the gonococcus to a clinically relevant antibiotic. Our findings have important implications for antibiotic stewardship and public health policies and, in particular, suggest that a previously abandoned antibiotic could be used again to treat a minority of gonorrhoea cases without raising resistance levels. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Asymptomatic Infections#Bisexuality#Cefixime#Cephalosporin Resistance#Cost-Benefit Analysis#England#Gonorrhea#Health Policy#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Models, Biological#Neisseria gonorrhoeae'
b"BACKGROUND: Disinvestment (removal, reduction, or reallocation) of routinely provided health services can be difficult when there is little published evidence examining whether the services are effective or not. Evidence is required to understand if removing these services produces outcomes that are inferior to keeping such services in place. However, organisational imperatives, such as budget cuts, may force healthcare providers to disinvest from these services before the required evidence becomes available. There are presently no experimental studies examining the effectiveness of allied health services (e.g., physical therapy, occupational therapy, and social work) provided on weekends across acute medical and surgical hospital wards, despite these services being routinely provided internationally. The aim of this study was to understand the impact of removing weekend allied health services from acute medical and surgical wards using a disinvestment-specific non-inferiority research design.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted 2 stepped-wedge cluster randomised controlled trials between 1 February 2014 and 30 April 2015 among patients on 12 acute medical or surgical hospital wards spread across 2 hospitals. The hospitals involved were 2 metropolitan teaching hospitals in Melbourne, Australia. Data from n = 14,834 patients were collected for inclusion in Trial 1, and n = 12,674 in Trial 2. Trial 1 was a disinvestment-specific non-inferiority stepped-wedge trial where the 'current' weekend allied health service was incrementally removed from participating wards each calendar month, in a random order, while Trial 2 used a conventional non-inferiority stepped-wedge design, where a 'newly developed' service was incrementally reinstated on the same wards as in Trial 1. Primary outcome measures were patient length of stay (proportion staying longer than expected and mean length of stay), the proportion of patients experiencing any adverse event, and the proportion with an unplanned readmission within 28 days of discharge. The 'no weekend allied health service' condition was considered to be not inferior if the 95% CIs of the differences between this condition and the condition with weekend allied health service delivery were below a 2% increase in the proportion of patients who stayed in hospital longer than expected, a 2% increase in the proportion who had an unplanned readmission within 28 days, a 2% increase in the proportion who had any adverse event, and a 1-day increase in the mean length of stay. The current weekend allied health service included physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, dietetics, social work, and allied health assistant services in line with usual care at the participating sites. The newly developed weekend allied health service allowed managers at each site to reprioritise tasks being performed and the balance of hours provided by each professional group and on which days they were provided. Analyses conducted on an intention-to-treat basis demonstrated that there was no estimated effect size difference between groups in the proportion of patients staying longer than expected (weekend versus no weekend; estimated effect size difference [95% CI], p-value) in Trial 1 (0.40 versus 0.38; estimated effect size difference 0.01 [-0.01 to 0.04], p = 0.31, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin), but the proportion staying longer than expected was greater with the newly developed service compared to its no weekend service control condition (0.39 versus 0.40; estimated effect size difference 0.02 [0.01 to 0.04], p = 0.04, CI was completely below non-inferiority margin) in Trial 2. Trial 1 and 2 findings were discordant for the mean length of stay outcome (Trial 1: 5.5 versus 6.3 days; estimated effect size difference 1.3 days [0.9 to 1.8], p<0.001, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin; Trial 2: 5.9 versus 5.0 days; estimated effect size difference -1.6 days [-2.0 to -1.1], p<0.001, CI was completely below non-inferiority margin). There was no difference between conditions for the proportion who had an unplanned readmission within 28 days in either trial (Trial 1: 0.01 [-0.01 to 0.03], p = 0.18, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin; Trial 2: -0.01 [-0.02 to 0.01], p = 0.62, CI completely below non-inferiority margin). There was no difference between conditions in the proportion of patients who experienced any adverse event in Trial 1 (0.01 [-0.01 to 0.03], p = 0.33, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin), but a lower proportion of patients had an adverse event in Trial 2 when exposed to the no weekend allied health condition (-0.03 [-0.05 to -0.004], p = 0.02, CI completely below non-inferiority margin). Limitations of this research were that 1 of the trial wards was closed by the healthcare provider after Trial 1 and could not be included in Trial 2, and that both withdrawing the current weekend allied health service model and installing a new one may have led to an accommodation period for staff to adapt to the new service settings. Stepped-wedge trials are potentially susceptible to bias from naturally occurring change over time at the service level; however, this was adjusted for in our analyses.CONCLUSIONS: In Trial 1, criteria to say that the no weekend allied health condition was non-inferior to current weekend allied health condition were not met, while neither the no weekend nor current weekend allied health condition demonstrated superiority. In Trial 2, the no weekend allied health condition was non-inferior to the newly developed weekend allied health condition across all primary outcomes, and superior for the outcomes proportion of patients staying longer than expected, proportion experiencing any adverse event, and mean length of stay.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12613001231730 and ACTRN12613001361796. labels: #After-Hours Care#Allied Health Personnel#Australia#Dietetics#Health Services#Hospital Units#Hospitalization#Humans#Length of Stay#Linear Models#Multilevel Analysis#Occupational Therapy#Patient Readmission#Physical Therapy Specialty#Social Work"
b"Stone cell content is thought to be one of the key determinants for fruit quality in pears. However, the molecular mechanism of stone cell development remains poorly understood. In this study, we found that the stone cell clusters (SCCs) distribution and area in 'Dangshan Su' (with abundant stone cells) were higher as compared to 'Lianglizaosu' (low stone cell content bud sport of 'Dangshan Su') based on the histochemical staining, and the correlations of lignin content with stone cell content and SCC area was significant. The fruits of 'Dangshan Su' and 'Lianglizaosu' at three different developmental stages (23 and 55 days after flowering and mature) were sampled for comparative transcriptome analysis to explore the metabolic pathways associated with stone cell development. A total of 42444 unigenes were obtained from two varieties, among which 7203 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparison of the six transcriptomes. Specifically, many DEGs associated with lignin biosynthesis were identified, including coumaroylquinate 3-monooxygenase (C3H), shikimate O-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (HCT), ferulate 5-hydroxylase (F5H), cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) and peroxidase (POD), as well as genes related to carbon metabolism, such as sorbitol dehydrogenase-like (SDH-like) and ATP-dependent 6-phosphofructokinase (ATP-PFK). At the peak of the stone cell content (55 days after flowering), the expression level of these genes in 'Dangshan Su' was significantly increased compared with 'Lianglizaosu', indicating that these genes were closely related to stone cell development. We validated the transcriptional levels of 33 DEGs using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis. The results were consistent with the transcriptome analysis, indicating the reliability of transcriptome data. In addition, subcellular localization analysis of three DEGs in lignin synthesis (PbC3H, PbF5H and PbPOD) revealed that these proteins are mainly distributed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm. These results provide new insights into the molecular mechanism of stone cell formation. labels: #Fruit#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genetic Association Studies#Lignin#Metabolic Networks and Pathways#Pyrus#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA"
b'The nuclear genome harbours hundreds to several thousand copies of ribosomal DNA. Despite their essential role in cellular ribogenesis few studies have addressed intrapopulation, interpopulation and interspecific levels of rDNA variability in wild plants. Some studies have assessed the extent of rDNA variation at the sequence and copy-number level with large sampling in several species. However, comparable studies on rDNA site number variation in plants, assessed with extensive hierarchical sampling at several levels (individuals, populations, species) are lacking. In exploring the possible causes for ribosomal loci dynamism, we have used the diploid genus Anacyclus (Asteraceae) as a suitable system to examine the evolution of ribosomal loci. To this end, the number and chromosomal position of 45S rDNA sites have been determined in 196 individuals from 47 populations in all Anacyclus species using FISH. The 45S rDNA site-number has been assessed in a significant sample of seed plants, which usually exhibit rather consistent features, except for polyploid plants. In contrast, the level of rDNA site-number variation detected in Anacyclus is outstanding in the context of angiosperms particularly regarding populations of the same species. The number of 45S rDNA sites ranged from four to 11, accounting for 14 karyological ribosomal phenotypes. Our results are not even across species and geographical areas, and show that there is no clear association between the number of 45S rDNA loci and the life cycle in Anacyclus. A single rDNA phenotype was detected in several species, but a more complex pattern that included intra-specific and intra-population polymorphisms was recorded in A. homogamos, A. clavatus and A. valentinus, three weedy species showing large and overlapping distribution ranges. It is likely that part of the cytogenetic changes and inferred dynamism found in these species have been triggered by genomic rearrangements resulting from contemporary hybridisation. labels: #Asteraceae#Chromosomes, Plant#DNA, Ribosomal#Diploidy#Genetic Variation#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Karyotyping#RNA, Ribosomal'
b'Purpose: Centripetal retinal degeneration in choroideremia (CHM) leads to early visual field restriction and late central vision loss. The latter marks an acute decline in quality of life but visual prognostication remains challenging. We investigated visual function in CHM by correlating best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), microperimetry and multimodal imaging.Methods: Fifty-six consecutive CHM patients attending Oxford Eye Hospital were examined with BCVA, 10-2 microperimetry, optical coherence tomography, and fundus autofluorescence (AF). Microperimetry was repeated in 21 eyes and analyzed with Bland-Altman. Kaplan-Meier survival plots of eyes retaining 20/20 BCVA were created. Intereye symmetry was assessed.Results: Microperimetry coefficient of repeatability was 1.45 dB. Survival analysis showed an indistinguishable pattern between eyes (median survival 39 years). Macular sensitivity showed a similar decline in right and left eyes, with half-lives of 13.6 years. Zonal analysis showed faster decline nasal to the fovea. Intereye symmetry was more consistent for microperimetry sensitivity (r = 0.95, P<0.001) than BCVA (r = 0.42, P = 0.0006). Near normal foveal sensitivity was maintained when the fovea was at least 2500 \xce\xbcm from the advancing edge of AF.Conclusions: BCVA is a marker of central degeneration and can provide valuable information about the position of the remaining retina as well as a measure of the impact on daily living. Microperimetry represents the global macular region. Both visual functions showed a high degree of intereye symmetry, particularly in early stages, indicating the fellow eye can provide a suitable control for assessing interventions to one eye. The findings may help to tailor visual prognosis and interpret outcomes of trials. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Choroideremia#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Fundus Oculi#Genetic Therapy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multimodal Imaging#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Visual Field Tests#Visual Fields#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To investigate the anti-inflammatory properties of ripasudil, a Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, using endotoxin-induced uveitis (EIU) in rats.Methods: Endotoxin-induced uveitis was induced by footpad injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Ripasudil was administered intraperitoneally 1 hour before and after LPS injection. The aqueous humor was collected 24 hours after injection, and the infiltrating cells, protein concentration, and levels of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) were determined. Infiltrating cells in the iris ciliary body (ICB) and adherent leukocytes in retinal vessels were evaluated. The mRNA levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1, and MCP-1 in the retina and ICB were determined. A mouse macrophage cell line, RAW264.7, was stimulated with LPS in the presence or absence of ripasudil, and the expression of MCP-1 and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-\xce\xbaB was analyzed.Results: Ripasudil significantly reduced infiltrating cells and protein exudation in the aqueous humor, as well as the number of infiltrating cells in the ICB and adherent leukocytes in retinal vessels in EIU. Additionally, the protein level of MCP-1 in the aqueous humor and mRNA levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1, MCP-1, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in the ICB and retina were suppressed by ripasudil. The production of MCP-1 and nuclear translocation of NF-\xce\xbaB in RAW264.7 cells were also suppressed by ripasudil.Conclusions: The Rho/ROCK pathway plays a role in adhesion molecule expression and inflammatory cell infiltration in EIU, and ripasudil is a potent anti-inflammatory agent against ocular inflammatory diseases, including acute uveitis and possibly uveitic glaucoma. labels: #Animals#Aqueous Humor#Cells, Cultured#Cytokines#Disease Models, Animal#Endotoxins#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Isoquinolines#Male#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Retina#Sulfonamides#Uveitis#rho-Associated Kinases'
b'Purpose: To assess vitreous levels of inflammatory cytokines and neurotrophins (NTs) in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and elucidate their potential roles.Methods: A prospective study was performed on 50 vitreous samples obtained from patients with DR (n = 22) and the nondiabetic controls (n = 28). All patients were candidates for vitrectomy. Inflammatory cytokine and NT levels were determined with ELISA. Potential source and role of NTs was determined by using human retinal M\xc3\xbcller glia and mouse photoreceptor cells and challenging them with TNF-\xce\xb1 or IL-1\xce\xb2, followed by detection of NTs and cell death.Results: Vitreous NT levels of all DR patients were significantly higher than those of nondiabetic controls (nerve growth factor [NGF, P = 0.0001], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF, P = 0.009], neurotrophin-3 [NT-3, P<0.0001], neurotrophin-4 [NT-4, P = 0.0001], ciliary neurotrophic factor [CNTF, P = 0.0001], and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor [GDNF, P = 0.008]). Similarly, the levels of inflammatory mediators IL-1\xce\xb2 (P<0.0001), IL-6 (P = 0.0005), IL-8 (P<0.0001), and TNF-\xce\xb1 (P<0.0001) were also higher in eyes with DR. Interestingly, inflammatory cytokine and NT levels, particularly TNF-\xce\xb1 (P<0.05), IL-8 (P<0.004), NT-3 (P = 0.012), NGF (P = 0.04), GDNF (P = 0.005), and CNTF (P = 0.002), were higher in eyes with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) than in eyes with active proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Cytokine stimulation of M\xc3\xbcller glia resulted in production of NTs, and GDNF treatment reduced photoreceptor cell death in response to inflammation and oxidative stress.Conclusions: Together, our study demonstrated that patients with DR have higher levels of both inflammatory cytokines and NTs in their vitreous. M\xc3\xbcller glia could be the potential source of NTs under inflammatory conditions to exert neuroprotection. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers#Cells, Cultured#Cytokines#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Growth Factors#Prospective Studies#Vitreous Body'
b'BACKGROUND: The objective of our investigation is to study the relationship between the rs4939827 SNP in the SMAD7 gene, Mediterranean diet pattern and the risk of colorectal cancer.METHODS: We examined 1087 cases of colorectal cancer and 2409 population controls with available DNA samples from the MCC-Spain study, 2008-2012. Descriptive statistical analyses, and multivariate logistic mixed models were performed. The potential synergistic effect of rs4939827 and the Mediterranean diet pattern was evaluated with logistic regression in different strata of of adherence to the Mediterranean diet and the genotype.RESULTS: High adherence to Mediterrenean diet was statistically significantly associated with colorectal cancer risk. A decreased risk for CRC cancer was observed for the CC compared to the TT genotype (OR\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.65 and 95% CI\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.51-0.81) of the rs4939827 SNP Also, we could show an association between the Mediterranean diet pattern (protective factor) and rs4939827. Although the decreased risk for the CC genotype was slightly more pronounced in subjects with high adherence to Mediterrenean diet, there was no statistically significant synergistic effect between genotype CC and adherence to the Mediterranean dietary pattern factors.CONCLUSION: The SMAD7 gene and specifically the allele C could be protective for colorectal cancer. An independent protective association was also observed between high adherence Mediterranean diet pattern and CRC risk. Findings form this study indicate that high adherence to Mediterranean diet pattern has a protective role for CRC cancer probably involving the Tumor Growth Factor- \xce\xb2 pathway in this cancer. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinogenesis#Case-Control Studies#Colorectal Neoplasms#Diet, Mediterranean#Female#Gene-Environment Interaction#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Smad7 Protein#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The influence of e-cigarette use on smoking initiation is a highly controversial issue, with limited longitudinal data available for examining temporal associations. We examined e-cigarette use and its association with cigarette-smoking initiation at 1-year follow-up within a large cohort of Canadian secondary school students.METHODS: We analyzed data from students in grades 9-12 who participated in 2 waves of COMPASS, a cohort study of purposefully sampled secondary schools in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, at baseline (2013/14) and 1-year follow-up (2014/15). We assessed cigarette smoking and e-cigarette use at baseline and follow-up using self-completed surveys. We used generalized linear mixed-effects models to examine correlates of past 30-day e-cigarette use at baseline and smoking initiation between waves within the longitudinal sample.RESULTS: Past 30-day e-cigarette use increased from 2013/14 to 2014/15 (7.2% v. 9.7%,p<0.001), whereas past 30-day cigarette smoking decreased slightly (11.4% v. 10.8%,p= 0.02). Among the 44 163 students evaluated at baseline, past 30-day e-cigarette use was strongly associated with smoking status and smoking susceptibility. In the longitudinal sample (n= 19 130), past 30-day use of e-cigarettes at baseline was associated with initiation of smoking a whole cigarette (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 2.12, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.68-2.66) and with initiation of daily smoking (adjusted OR 1.79, 95% CI 1.41-2.28) at follow-up.INTERPRETATION: E-cigarette use was strongly associated with cigarette smoking behaviour, including smoking initiation at follow-up. The causal nature of this association remains unclear, because common factors underlying the use of both e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes may also account for the temporal order of initiation. labels: #Adolescent#Adolescent Behavior#Alberta#Behavior, Addictive#Cohort Studies#Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems#Female#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Ontario#Peer Group#Risk Factors#Self Report#Smoking#Tobacco Use Disorder'
b'BACKGROUND: Although previous studies have demonstrated that patients receiving bilateral internal mammary artery (BIMA) conduits during coronary artery bypass grafting have better long-term survival than those receiving a single internal mammary artery (SIMA), data on risk of repeat revascularization are more limited. In this analysis, we compare the timing, frequency, and type of repeat coronary revascularization among patients receiving BIMA and SIMA.METHODS: We conducted a multicenter, retrospective analysis of 47 984 consecutive coronary artery bypass grafting surgeries performed from 1992 to 2014 among 7 medical centers reporting to a prospectively maintained clinical registry. Among the study population, 1482 coronary artery bypass grafting surgeries with BIMA were identified, and 1297 patients receiving BIMA were propensity-matched to 1297 patients receiving SIMA. The primary end point was freedom from repeat coronary revascularization.RESULTS: The median duration of follow-up was 13.2 (IQR, 7.4-17.7) years. Patients were well matched by age, body mass index, major comorbidities, and cardiac function. There was a higher freedom from repeat revascularization among patients receiving BIMA than among patients receiving SIMA (hazard ratio [HR], 0.78 [95% CI, 0.65-0.94];P=0.009). Among the matched cohort, 19.4% (n=252) of patients receiving SIMA underwent repeat revascularization, whereas this frequency was 15.1% (n=196) among patients receiving BIMA (P=0.004). The majority of repeat revascularization procedures were percutaneous coronary interventions (94.2%), and this did not differ between groups (P=0.274). Groups also did not differ in the ratio of native versus graft vessel percutaneous coronary intervention (P=0.899), or regarding percutaneous coronary intervention target vessels; the most common targets in both groups were the right coronary (P=0.133) and circumflex arteries (P=0.093). In comparison with SIMA, BIMA grafting was associated with a reduction in all-cause mortality at 12 years of follow-up (HR, 0.79 [95% CI, 0.69-0.91];P=0.001), and there was no difference in in-hospital morbidity.CONCLUSIONS: BIMA grafting was associated with a reduced risk of repeat revascularization and an improvement in long-term survival and should be considered more frequently during coronary artery bypass grafting. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Coronary Artery Bypass#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mammary Arteries#Middle Aged#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate'
b'BACKGROUND: Pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot provides symptomatic benefit and right ventricular (RV) volume reduction. However, data on the rate of ventricular structural and functional adaptation are scarce. We aimed to assess immediate and midterm post-PVR changes and predictors of reverse remoeling.METHODS: Fifty-seven patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot (age \xe2\x89\xa516 y; mean age, 35.8\xc2\xb110.1 y; 38 male) undergoing PVR were prospectively recruited for cardiovascular magnetic resonance performed before PVR (pPVR), immediately after PVR (median, 6 d), and midterm after PVR (mPVR; median, 3 y).RESULTS: There were immediate and midterm reductions in indexed RV end-diastolic volumes and RV end-systolic volumes (RVESVi) (indexed RV end-diastolic volume pPVR versus immediately after PVR versus mPVR, 156.1\xc2\xb141.9 versus 104.9\xc2\xb128.4 versus 104.2\xc2\xb134.4 mL/m2; RVESVi pPVR versus immediately after PVR versus mPVR, 74.9\xc2\xb126.2 versus 57.4\xc2\xb122.7 versus 50.5\xc2\xb121.7 mL/m2;P<0.01). Normal postoperative diastolic and systolic RV volumes (the primary end point) achieved in 70% of patients were predicted by a preoperative indexed RV end-diastolic volume \xe2\x89\xa4158 mL/m2and RVESVi \xe2\x89\xa482 mL/m2. RVESVi showed a progressive decrease from baseline to immediate to midterm follow-up, indicating ongoing intrinsic RV functional improvement after PVR. Left ventricular ejection fraction improved (pPVR versus mPVR, 59.4\xc2\xb17.6% versus 61.9\xc2\xb16.8%;P<0.01), and right atrial reverse remodeling occurred (pPVR versus mPVR, 15.2\xc2\xb13.4 versus 13.8\xc2\xb13.6 cm2/m2;P<0.01). Larger preoperative RV outflow tract scar was associated with a smaller improvement in post-PVR RV/left ventricular ejection fraction. RV ejection fraction and peak oxygen uptake predicted mortality (P=0.03) over a median of 9.5 years of follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: Significant right heart structural reverse remodeling takes place immediately after PVR, followed by a continuing process of further biological remodeling manifested by further reduction in RVESVi. PVR before RVESVi reaches 82 mL/m2confers optimal chances of normalization of RV function. labels: #Adult#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Valve Prosthesis#Heart Valve Prosthesis Implantation#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Pulmonary Valve#Stroke Volume#Tetralogy of Fallot#Ventricular Remodeling'
b'OBJECTIVES: To estimate the association between maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy and of paternal use before pregnancy with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in offspring while adjusting for familial risk for ADHD and indications of acetaminophen use.METHODS: Diagnoses were obtained from the Norwegian Patient Registry for 112\xe2\x80\x89973 offspring from the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study, including 2246 with ADHD. We estimated hazard ratios (HRs) for an ADHD diagnosis by using Cox proportional hazard models.RESULTS: After adjusting for maternal use of acetaminophen before pregnancy, familial risk for ADHD, and indications of acetaminophen use, we observed a modest association between any prenatal maternal use of acetaminophen in 1 (HR = 1.07; 95% confidence interval [CI]0.96-1.19), 2 (HR = 1.22; 95% CI 1.07-1.38), and 3 trimesters (HR = 1.27; 95% CI 0.99-1.63). The HR for more than 29 days of maternal acetaminophen use was 2.20 (95% CI 1.50-3.24). Use for<8 days was negatively associated with ADHD (HR = 0.90; 95% CI 0.81-1.00). Acetaminophen use for fever and infections for 22 to 28 days was associated with ADHD (HR = 6.15; 95% CI 1.71-22.05). Paternal and maternal use of acetaminophen were similarly associated with ADHD.CONCLUSIONS: Short-term maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was negatively associated with ADHD in offspring. Long-term maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was substantially associated with ADHD even after adjusting for indications of use, familial risk of ADHD, and other potential confounders. labels: #Acetaminophen#Adolescent#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Norway#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Prospective Studies#Registries#Risk Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite data suggesting safety and efficacy in ulcerative colitis patients treated with inpatient infliximab, prior studies did not focus on patients with extensive colitis, the group at highest risk for requiring surgery.METHODS: This was a single center, retrospective study (2008-2015) of consecutive patients who required admission because of severe extensive ulcerative colitis defined by preoperative symptoms and computed tomography scans and postoperative histology. Patients admitted for high-dose steroids were compared with steroid refractory inpatients provided with one or two infusions of infliximab. The primary study outcome was colectomy rates; secondary outcomes included mean length of stay and 60-d complication rates.RESULTS: A total of 174 patients required admission with steroids for extensive ulcerative colitis. Of these, 19 (10%) also received infliximab. Among the subjects treated with infliximab, 15 (78%) required total colectomy during that admission versus 81 (52%) who received steroids alone (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03). Postoperative readmission rates, surgical-site infections, return to the operating room, and all-complication rates were similar between the cohorts (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: For steroid refractory extensive ulcerative colitis, inpatient infliximab did not lower colectomy rates or increase postoperative complications compared with patients treated with steroids alone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Colectomy#Colitis, Ulcerative#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Gastrointestinal Agents#Hospitalization#Humans#Infliximab#Infusions, Intravenous#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Steroids#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The liver has unique anatomy in that most blood flow to normal hepatocytes is derived from the portal venous system, whereas liver tumors obtain their nutrient blood supply exclusively from the hepatic artery. The focused arterial delivery of anticancer agents to liver tumors has been performed for decades; however, preclinical models to standardize drug regimens and examine novel agents have been lacking. The purpose of this study was to establish preclinical hepatic artery infusion (HAI) models in a mouse and to evaluate the safety and delivery capability of the models.MATERIAL AND METHODS: C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice were used to develop models of HAI via the hepatic artery (HA), superior pancreaticoduodenal artery (SPDA), or lienogastric artery (LGA). Success rates, distribution of perfusion, and associated morbidity and mortality were analyzed between groups.RESULTS: All three models were feasible and reproducible in mice, and there was no statistical difference on body weight change between models. The HA model had a 13.3% mortality from acute liver failure, and the SPDA model demonstrated duodenal and pancreatic toxicity. SPDA and LGA routes had the highest success rates (96.7% and 91.4%, respectively) with low mortality, better drug delivery, and preserved physiologic liver function compared with the HA model.CONCLUSIONS: The optimal route of HAI was mouse breed specific; SPDA access in BALB/c mice, and the LGA access in C57BL/6 mice. The described techniques serve as a reproducible platform for the identification and characterization of therapeutics for diverse metastatic liver tumors. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Colonic Neoplasms#Female#Fluorouracil#Hepatic Artery#Infusions, Intra-Arterial#Liver Neoplasms#Liver Neoplasms, Experimental#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Reproducibility of Results#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Hispanic ethnicity is associated with increased incidence of gallbladder disease. Additionally, ethnicity has been shown to be an outcome determinant in several conditions and procedures but has never been studied as a potential determinant of morbidity or mortality after laparoscopic or open cholecystectomy.METHODS: Using the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database, patients who underwent cholecystectomy and related procedures were studied in Hispanic and non-Hispanic cohorts. Mortality and postoperative complication rates were calculated and adjusted for patient demographics and comorbidities through multivariate analysis.RESULTS: Hispanics had decreased morbidity following cholecystectomy as compared to non-Hispanics on univariate analysis in combined, laparoscopic, and open cohorts (RR 0.64, P value<0.001; 0.68,<0.001; 0.77,<0.001, respectively). The reduction was not found to be statistically significant in multivariate analysis. A similar reduction was seen for mortality (RR 0.30,<0.001; 0.39,<0.001; 0.28,<0.001, respectively) which remained on multivariate analysis in both combined and open cohorts (RR 0.63, 0.008 and 0.48, 0.021, respectively). Additionally, the rates of several postoperative complications were found to be reduced in Hispanic patients. Though our study demonstrates a lower rate of established comorbidities for poor outcomes in Hispanics, after adjustment in multivariate analysis, the entirety of the reduced risk could not be accounted for.CONCLUSIONS: While the Hispanic cohort has an increased incidence in gallbladder disease as compared to non-Hispanics, the complication, morbidity, and mortality rates are lower in unadjusted analysis. With adjustment, morbidity was not statistically significant and mortality was only significant in combined and open cohorts. This suggests that increased incidence rates do not equate with worse outcomes, but Hispanic ethnicity may be associated with better outcomes. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cholecystectomy#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Databases, Factual#Female#Health Status Disparities#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#United States#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Childhood sarcomas are rare and require complex interdisciplinary care including surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. The goal of this study was to determine if racial or ethnic disparities exist for pediatric sarcoma patients in the United States.METHODS: The United States' National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database was used to identify patients aged 0-21 diagnosed with primary sarcomas from 1973 to 2012. Patients were considered by race and ethnicity. Survival curves were computed using the Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test.RESULTS: A total of 11,502 patients were included in this study. When stratified by race, non-Hispanic black and Hispanic patients were significantly more likely to present with advanced stage disease than white patients. White patients were more likely to receive radiation therapy than black and Hispanic patients (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.01). There was no significant difference between patients who underwent surgery (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.21). Overall survival was better for white patients than black or Hispanic ones. Despite the overall 5-year survival improvement during the study period (56.2%-70.3%), survival disparities between race and ethnicity have grown.CONCLUSIONS: Racial and ethnic disparities do exist with respect to stage, treatment, and survival of these rare tumors. Black and Hispanic patients are presenting at more advanced stage and have overall worse survival. This survival disparity has widened over the past 4\xc2\xa0decades. labels: #Adolescent#Bone Neoplasms#Child#Child, Preschool#Combined Modality Therapy#Ethnic Groups#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Health Status Disparities#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Retrospective Studies#SEER Program#Sarcoma#Soft Tissue Neoplasms#Survival Rate#United States#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: Given concern for hernia mesh infection, surgeons often use biologic mesh which may provide reduced risk of infection but at the cost of decreased repair durability. We evaluated mesh coating to provide sustained release of antibiotics to prevent prosthetic mesh infection and also allow a durable repair.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cyclodextrin-based polymer was crosslinked onto multifilament polyester mesh and loaded with vancomycin (1.75\xc2\xa0mg/cm2). Pigs received modified meshes (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa06) or normal, untreated meshes (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa04), which were implanted into acute 10\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa05 cm ventral hernia, then directly inoculated with 106\xc2\xa0colony-forming unit (CFU) of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). These were compared to animals receiving normal, uninfected mesh. All mesh was secured in an underlay bridge manner, and after 30\xc2\xa0d, the abdominal wall was removed for quantitative bacterial culture and biomechanical analysis.RESULTS: All animals survived 30\xc2\xa0d. All six animals with coated mesh cleared MRSA infection. The four control animals did not clear MRSA (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.005). Quantitative bacterial load was higher in standard mesh versus drug-delivery mesh group (2.34 \xc3\x97 104versus 80.9\xc2\xa0CFU/gm). These data were log10-transformed and analyzed by Welch's t-test (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). Minimum number of CFUs detectable by assay (300) was used instead of zero. Biomechanical analysis of controls (1.82\xc2\xa0N/mm infected; 1.71\xc2\xa0N/mm uninfected) showed no difference to the modified meshes (1.31\xc2\xa0N/mm) in tissue integration (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.15).CONCLUSIONS: We successfully prevented synthetic mesh infection in a pig model using a cyclodextrin-based polymer to locally deliver vancomycin to the hernia repair site and clearing antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Polymer coating did not impact the strength of the hernia repair. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Cellulose#Cyclodextrins#Female#Hernia, Ventral#Herniorrhaphy#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Polyesters#Prosthesis-Related Infections#Random Allocation#Staphylococcal Infections#Surgical Mesh#Swine#Treatment Outcome#Vancomycin"
b'BACKGROUND: Previous data indicate that patients who undergo surgery with a postgraduate year 3 (PGY-3) resident as the junior surgeon have a lower rate of recurrence compared with PGY-1 and PGY-2 after an open inguinal herniorrhaphy. Lower PGY level was also associated with increased operative time. We hypothesize that when controlling for surgeon, technique, and hernia type, the outcomes for inguinal herniorrhaphy are the same independent of PGY level.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of all open unilateral inguinal hernia repairs done by residents who assisted the same senior surgeon at the Veterans Affairs North Texas Health Care System was performed.RESULTS: Seven hundred fifty-two open unilateral inguinal hernia were identified: mean patient age\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa060.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa012.7\xc2\xa0y; mean body mass index\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa027.0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa010.8\xc2\xa0kg/m2; American Society of Anesthesia III-IV\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa051%; and Nyhus type 2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa044.7%, 3a\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa041.6%, and 3b\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa013.7%. Residents involved were PGY-1 (17.2%), PGY-2/3 (71.1%), and PGY-4/5 (11.7%). Postoperative complications for intern, junior (PGY-2 and PGY-3), and senior residents (PGY-4 and PGY-5) were 4%, 9%, and 6%, respectively (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.14). Compared to interns, junior residents finished the operation 3.9\xc2\xa0min faster (95% confidence interval = -7.5, -0.3). There was no time difference between interns and senior residents completing the operations after controlling for hernia type. Logistic regression did not identify PGY level as an independent predictor of complications or recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: There was a slight decrease in operative time when the repair was done with junior-level residents. PGY level did not influence outcomes for open, unilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy when controlled for hernia type and technique. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Competence#Female#Follow-Up Studies#General Surgery#Hernia, Inguinal#Herniorrhaphy#Humans#Internship and Residency#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Texas#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Secondary lymphedema commonly arises as a complication of cancer surgery\xc2\xa0and radiation treatment; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1) forms a complex with calcitonin receptor-like receptor to generate the receptor for calcitonin gene-related peptide. The present study examined whether RAMP1 plays a role in increased lymphangiogenesis during secondary lymphedema.METHODS: A model of lymphedema was generated by surgical removal of pre-existing lymphatic vessels from the subcutaneous tissue on the tails of RAMP1-deficient (RAMP1-/-) mice and their wild-type (WT) counterparts. The maximum diameter of the tail, lymphangiogenesis, and macrophage recruitment were then examined.RESULTS: Compared with that in WT mice, lymphedema in the tails in RAMP1-/- mice was sustained, with suppressed lymphangiogenesis and reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-C and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 at the distal edge of the lesions. The newly formed lymphatic vessels in RAMP1-/- mice were dilated, with impaired lymphatic flow. RAMP1 was expressed by macrophages recruited into edematous tail tissues distal to the wound. The number of macrophages in RAMP1-/- mice was higher than that in WT mice. Expression of messenger RNA encoding M1 macrophage-related genes, including tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 and interleukin-1, was higher in RAMP1-/- mice than in WT mice, whereas expression of messenger RNA encoding M2 macrophage genes, including interleukin-10, was lower.CONCLUSIONS: RAMP1 signaling improves lymphedema and accelerates lymphangiogenesis associated with reduced recruitment of pro-inflammatory macrophages. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Lymphangiogenesis#Lymphedema#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Postoperative Complications#Receptor Activity-Modifying Protein 1#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND: Direct transport of patients with severe traumatic brain injury (sTBI) to trauma centers (TCs) that can provide definitive care results in lower mortality rates. This study investigated the impact of direct versus nondirect transfers on the mortality rates of patients with sTBI.METHODS: Data on patients with TBI admitted between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2013, to our Level I TC were obtained from the trauma registry. Data included patient age, sex, mechanism, and type of injury, comorbidities, Glasgow Coma Scale, Injury Severity scores, prehospital time, time to request and to transfer, time to initiation of multimodality monitoring and goal-directed therapy protocol, dwell time in the emergency department (EDT), and mortality. Data, reported in means\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa0standard deviation, were analyzed with the Student t-test and chi-square. Statistical significance was accepted at a P value\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05.RESULTS: sTBI direct transfer to TC versus transfer from non-TCs (NTC): Of the 1187 patients with TBI admitted to our TC, 768 (64.7%) were admitted directly from the scene, whereas 419 (35.3%) were admitted after secondary transfer. One hundred seventy-one (22.2%) of the direct transfers had Glasgow Coma Scale\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa08 (sTBI) and 92 (21.9%) of the secondary transfers had sTBI. The transfer time: Time from scene to arrival to the EDT was significantly shorter for TC versus NTCs 43\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa014 versus 77\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa026\xc2\xa0min, respectively (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05). EDT dwell time before transfer and time from injury to arrival to TC were 4.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa02.1 and 6.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08.3\xc2\xa0h, respectively. Mortality: There was a statistically significant lower mortality for patients with sTBI transferred directly from the scene to TCs as opposed to patients secondarily transferred, 33/171 (19.3%) versus 33/92 (35.8%), respectively (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: To decrease TBI-related mortality, patients with suspected sTBI should be taken directly to a Level I or II TC unless they require life-saving stabilization at NTCs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Humans#Injury Severity Score#Male#Middle Aged#New York#Patient Transfer#Registries#Trauma Centers'
b'BACKGROUND: There is a high morbidity rate after digestive surgery in patients with nutritional disorders such as high body mass index and depletion of skeletal muscle.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The ratio of psoas muscle area to trunk area was defined as the Psoas and All trunk Ratio (PandA Ratio) and used as an index of the balance between muscle and adipose tissue. This ratio was determined in 77 patients undergoing laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy (LAG) for gastric cancer. Patients were classified into groups with and without postoperative complications. Clinicopathological factors were compared between the groups, and relationships of PandA Ratio with other nutritional indices were examined. PandA Ratios were also analyzed in males and females in each Clavien-Dindo grade.RESULTS: Complications developed in 22 patients (28.6%) after LAG. The PandA Ratio was significantly lower in patients with complications in univariate (2.76\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.22% versus 3.66\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.14%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0009) and multivariate (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0064) analyses. A low PandA Ratio was also associated with more severe complications in males.CONCLUSIONS: Measurement of the areas of the psoas muscle and trunk on CT is useful for evaluation of the balance between skeletal and adipose tissue. The PandA Ratio derived from these measurements is a predictor of the clinical course after LAG in males. labels: #Adiposity#Adult#Aged#Body Composition#Female#Gastrectomy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Nutritional Status#Postoperative Complications#Psoas Muscles#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Thorax#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist, possesses potent anti-inflammation effects. We previously confirmed the effects of naloxone on inhibiting upregulation of inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1\xce\xb2 (IL-1\xce\xb2). Production of mature form IL-1\xce\xb2 is mediated by the nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, a multiprotein complex composed of NLRP3, and the adaptor protein apoptosis-associated speck-like protein contains a caspase recruitment domain (ASC). We elucidated whether naloxone could inhibit the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome.MATERIAL AND METHODS: To induce IL-1\xce\xb2 production and NLRP3 inflammasome activation, the human monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1\xc2\xa0cells were first primed with lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/mL) and then activated with adenosine triphosphate (ATP, 1 mM). For NLRP3 transcription, THP-1\xc2\xa0cells were only treated with LPS priming.RESULTS: Enzyme-link immunosorbent assay data revealed that the concentration of IL-1\xce\xb2 in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP was significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP plus naloxone (0.1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Real-time quantitative reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction data also revealed that NLRP3 mRNA concentration in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS was significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus naloxone (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). ASC speck formation, that is, ASC assembles into a large protein complex, is an indicator for NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Our data revealed that the percentage of cells containing ASC specks in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP was also significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP plus naloxone (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001).CONCLUSIONS: Naloxone inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Biomarkers#Cell Line#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Escherichia coli#Humans#Inflammasomes#Interleukin-1beta#Lipopolysaccharides#NLR Family, Pyrin Domain-Containing 3 Protein#Naloxone#Peptide Fragments#Random Allocation#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Up-Regulation'
b'BACKGROUND: Prior interventions to address declining interest in surgical careers have focused on creating early exposure and fostering mentorship at the preclinical medical student level. Navigating the surgical environment can be challenging, however, and preclinical students may be more likely to pursue a surgical career if they are given the tools to function optimally.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We designed a 10-wk technical and nontechnical skills curriculum to provide preclinical students with knowledge and skills necessary to successfully navigate the surgical learning environment, followed by placement in high-fidelity surgical simulations and scrubbing in on operative cases with attending surgeons. We administered pre-post surveys to assess student confidence levels in operative skills, self-perceptions of having a mentor, overall course efficacy, and interest in a career in surgery.RESULTS: The overall response rates presurvey and postsurvey were 100% (30 of 30) and 93.3% (28 of 30), respectively. Confidence levels across all operative skills increased significantly after completing the course. Faculty mentorship increased significantly from 30.0% before to 61.5% after the course. Overall effectiveness of the course was 4.00 of 5 (4\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0"very effective"), and although insignificant, overall interest in a career in surgery increased at the completion of the course from 3.77 (standard deviation\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.01) to 4.17 (standard deviation\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.94).CONCLUSIONS: Our curriculum was effective in teaching the skills necessary to enjoy positive experiences in planned early exposure and mentorship activities. Further study is warranted to determine if this intervention leads to an increase in students who formally commit to a career in surgery. labels: #California#Career Choice#Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#General Surgery#Humans#Male#Mentoring#Program Evaluation#Simulation Training'
b"BACKGROUND: Surgery is very cognitively demanding, particularly for novices. Novices are required to direct full attention on the procedure at hand, and additional demands can lead to cognitive overload. Through extensive practice, experts develop spare attentional capacity (SAC) for simultaneous tasks. However, little effort has been made to enhance novices' SAC. Mental skills may enhance attention management and increase SAC. The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of a novel mental skills curriculum (MSC) to enhance novices' attention management.METHODS: Sixty novice volunteers were randomly stratified to a control or MSC group based on baseline laparoscopic skill and mental skill use (assessed with the Test of Performance Strategies version 2 [TOPS-2]). All participants received laparoscopic training, whereas the MSC group received additional mental skills training. At all sessions, participants completed a secondary task during laparoscopy, which assessed SAC. Participants also completed the D2 Test of Attention and the TOPS-2 attention control subscale, which are valid attention measures.RESULTS: Fifty-five novices completed the study. Both groups displayed significantly improved laparoscopic suturing ability (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and D2 performance (control: P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.005, MSC: P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01), but there were no between-group differences in D2 or TOPS attention control scores. However, only the MSC group displayed significantly improved hit rate on the secondary task (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: The novel MSC implemented in this study enhanced surgical novices' SAC compared to controls, and it is clear that this curriculum may be effective at enhancing learners' ability to attend multiple task-relevant stimuli concurrently. Additional study of the impact of this MSC on learners' attentional capacity is currently underway. labels: #Adult#Attention#Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Simulation Training#Surgeons#United States"
b"This 2017 Presidential Address for the Association for Academic Surgery was delivered on February 8, 2017. It addresses the difficult topic of gender disparities in surgery. Mixing empirical data with personal anecdotes, Dr. Caprice Greenberg provides an insightful overview of this difficult challenge facing the surgical discipline and practical advice on how we can begin to address it. labels: #Career Mobility#Faculty, Medical#Female#Gender Identity#Humans#Leadership#Male#Physician's Role#Physicians, Women#Salaries and Fringe Benefits#Sexism#Societies, Medical#Specialties, Surgical#Surgeons#United States#Women's Rights"
b"BACKGROUND: Nissen fundoplication is considered an advanced minimally invasive procedure whether performed laparoscopically or robotically. In laparoscopic surgery, it is evident that assistant skill level impacts operative times. However, the robotic platform allows improved surgeon autonomy. We aimed to determine the impact of assistant training level on operative times in robotic Nissen fundoplication (RNF) and laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (LNF).METHODS: A prospectively maintained Nissen database (2011-2016) from a single academic institution was utilized to collect patient characteristics, operative times, length of stay, intraoperative complications, postoperative complications, readmission rate, and assistant training level. Assistants were either postgraduate year-3 surgery residents defined as junior-level assistants or a minimally invasive surgery (MIS) fellow defined as senior-level assistants.RESULTS: There were 105 patients included in our analyses. When comparing postgraduate year-3 residents to MIS fellows performing LNF, the median operative time was significantly decreased when senior-level assistants were present in the LNF group, 85 (75-103) versus 129 (74-269) min, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.02. In comparison, median operative times in the RNF group were independent of the assistant's level of training, 154 (71-300) versus 158 (101-215) min, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.34. There were no significant differences in outcomes between the junior- and senior-level assistant cohorts for estimated blood loss, length of stay, postoperative complications, and 30-d readmission rates in either the LNF or RNF group.CONCLUSIONS: Assistant training level impacted operative time for LNF but not RNF. These differences are most likely attributed to increased autonomy of the operating surgeon afforded by the robotic platform reducing assistant variability. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Competence#Education, Medical, Graduate#Fellowships and Scholarships#Female#Fundoplication#Humans#Internship and Residency#Laparoscopy#Male#Middle Aged#New York City#Operative Time#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Retrospective Studies#Robotic Surgical Procedures"
b"OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of miscarriage in women with endometriosis (WwE) compared with disease-free control women (CW).DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis nested in a retrospective observational study (n = 940).SETTING: Hospitals and associated private practices.PATIENT(S): Previously pregnant women (n = 268) within reproductive age in matched pairs.INTERVENTION(S): Retrospective analysis of surgical reports and self-administered questionnaires.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Rate of miscarriage, subanalysis for fertility status (\xe2\x89\xa412 vs.>12\xc2\xa0months' time to conception), endometriosis stages (revised American Society of Reproductive Medicine classification [rASRM] I/II vs. III/IV) and phenotypic localizations (superficial peritoneal, ovarian, and deep infiltrating endometriosis).RESULT(S): The miscarriage rate was higher in WwE (35.8% [95% confidence interval 29.6%-42.0%]) compared with CW (22.0% [16.7%-27.0%]); adjusted incidence risk ratio of 1.97 (95% CI 1.41-2.75). This remained significant in subfertile WwE (50.0% [40.7%-59.4%]) vs. CW (25.8% [8.5%-41.2%]) but not in fertile WwE (24.5% [16.3%-31.6%]) vs. CW (21.5% [15.9%-26.8%]). The miscarriage rate was higher in women with milder forms (rASRM I/II 42.1% [32.6%-51.4%] vs. rASRM III/IV 30.8% [22.6%-38.7%], compared with 22.0% [16.7%-27.0%] in CW), and in women with superficial peritoneal endometriosis (42.0% [32.0%-53.9%]) compared with ovarian endometriosis (28.6% [17.7%-38.7%]) and deep infiltrating endometriosis (33.9% [21.2%-46.0%]) compared with CW (22.0% [16.7%-27.0%]).CONCLUSION(S): Mild endometriosis, as in superficial lesions, is related to a great extent of inflammatory disorder, possibly leading to defective folliculogenesis, fertilization, and/or implantation, presenting as increased risk of miscarriage.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02511626. labels: #Abortion, Spontaneous#Adolescent#Adult#Cross-Sectional Studies#Endometriosis#Europe#Female#Fertility#Humans#Infertility, Female#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Pregnancy#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: To compare total antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone (AMH), proAMH, AMHN,C, and the ratio of the two forms in predictive models for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) diagnosis. Total AMH consists of proAMH (inactive precursor) and AMHN,C(receptor-competent), but neither isoform has been tested individually for their ability to predict PCOS diagnosis.DESIGN: Cross-sectional study using biobanked samples collected between July 2008 and January\xc2\xa02010.SETTING: Not applicable.PATIENT(S): Overweight, premenopausal women aged 18-45\xc2\xa0years with PCOS (n = 45, with 21 fulfilling National Institutes of Health diagnostic criteria and 24 fulfilling European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology/American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ESHRE) criteria, but not National Institutes of Health criteria) and without PCOS (n = 23 controls).INTERVENTION(S): None.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Serum concentrations of proAMH and total AMH (proAMH and AMHN,Ccombined) were determined by immunoassay. The AMHN,Cconcentrations were calculated by subtraction ([AMHN,C] = [total AMH]- [proAMH]). Relative levels of proAMH were expressed as the AMH prohormone index (API = [ProAMH]/[Total AMH] \xc3\x97 100).RESULT(S): In women with PCOS, total AMH, proAMH, and AMHN,Clevels were higher, and the API was lower (P=.010), than in controls indicating increased conversion of proAMH to AMHN,C. Receiver-operating characteristic analysis for proAMH (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.82), AMHN,C(AUC = 0.86), and API (AUC = 0.70) did not improve the prediction for PCOS when compared with total AMH (AUC = 0.86).CONCLUSION(S): The proAMH and AMHN,Cdo not appear to improve the ability to predict a diagnosis of PCOS beyond total AMH assays. However, the ratio of inactive proAMH precursor to receptor-competent AMHN,C(API) differs in women with PCOS relative to unaffected controls indicating that AMH signaling mechanisms may be altered in women with PCOS. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anti-Mullerian Hormone#Area Under Curve#Biomarkers#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Polycystic Ovary Syndrome#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Protein Isoforms#Protein Precursors#ROC Curve#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to acutely visualize radiofrequency ablation lesions, but its accuracy in predicting chronic lesion size is unknown. The main goal of this study was to characterize different areas of enhancement in late gadolinium enhancement MRI done immediately after ablation to predict acute edema and chronic lesion size.METHODS AND RESULTS: In a canine model (n=10), ventricular radiofrequency lesions were created using ThermoCool SmartTouch (Biosense Webster) catheter. All animals underwent MRI (late gadolinium enhancement and T2-weighted edema imaging) immediately after ablation and after 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks. Edema, microvascular obstruction, and enhanced volumes were identified in MRI and normalized to chronic histological volume. Immediately after contrast administration, the microvascular obstruction region was 3.2\xc2\xb11.1 times larger than the chronic lesion volume in acute MRI. Even 60 minutes after contrast administration, edema was 8.7\xc2\xb13.31 times and the enhanced area 6.14\xc2\xb12.74 times the chronic lesion volume. Exponential fit to the microvascular obstruction volume was found to be the best predictor of chronic lesion volume at 26.14 minutes (95% prediction interval, 24.35-28.11 minutes) after contrast injection. The edema volume in late gadolinium enhancement correlated well with edema volume in T2-weighted MRI with anR2of 0.99.CONCLUSION: Microvascular obstruction region on acute late gadolinium enhancement images acquired 26.1 minutes after contrast administration can accurately predict the chronic lesion volume. We also show that T1-weighted MRI images acquired immediately after contrast injection accurately shows edema resulting from radiofrequency ablation. labels: #Animals#Biopsy#Catheter Ablation#Cicatrix#Contrast Media#Coronary Circulation#Dogs#Edema, Cardiac#Heart Ventricles#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Meglumine#Microcirculation#Models, Animal#Organometallic Compounds#Predictive Value of Tests#Time Factors'
b'Pigmentary hypertrichosis and non-autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (PHID) is associated with recessive mutations inSLC29A3, encoding the equilibrative nucleoside transporter hENT3 expressed in mitochondria, causing PHID and H syndromes, familial Rosai-Dorfman disease, and histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy-plus syndrome. Autoinflammation is increasingly recognized in these syndromes. We previously reported a 16-year-old girl with PHID syndrome associated with severe autoinflammation that was recalcitrant to interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 blockade. Tocilizumab is a humanized, monoclonal, anti-human interleukin-6 receptor antibody routinely used to treat arthritis in children and adults. Herein we report the first case of successful treatment of PHID syndrome using tocilizumab. Before commencing tocilizumab, there was evidence of significant systemic inflammation, and progressive sclerodermatous changes (physician global assessment [PGA] 7/10). Twelve weeks after starting tocilizumab (8 mg/kg every 2 weeks, intravenously) systemic inflammatory symptoms improved, and acute phase response markers normalized; serum amyloid A reduced from 178 to 8.4 mg/L. After a dose increase to 12 mg/kg every 2 weeks her energy levels, appetite, fevers, and night sweats further improved. Less skin tightness (PGA 5/10) was documented 12 months later. This excellent clinical and serological response was sustained over 48 months, and cutaneous sclerosis had improved further (PGA 3/10). Her height remained well below the 0.4th centile, and tocilizumab also had no impact on her diabetes or exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. Although the mechanism of autoinflammation of PHID remains uncertain, we suggest that tocilizumab should be the first choice when considering treatment of the autoinflammatory or cutaneous manifestations of this genetic disease. labels: #Adolescent#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Contracture#Female#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Histiocytosis#Humans#Mutation#Nucleoside Transport Proteins#Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b'Purpose: To test the hypothesis that retinal vascular diameter and hemoglobin oxygen saturation alterations, according to stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR), are discernible with a commercially available scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO).Methods: One hundred eighty-one subjects with no diabetes (No DM), diabetes with no DR (No DR), nonproliferative DR (NPDR), or proliferative DR (PDR, all had photocoagulation) underwent imaging with an SLO with dual lasers (532 nm and 633 nm). Customized image analysis software determined the diameters of retinal arteries and veins (DA and DV) and central retinal artery and vein equivalents (CRAE and CRVE). Oxygen saturations of hemoglobin in arteries and veins (SO2A and SO2V) were estimated from optical densities of vessels on images at the two wavelengths. Statistical models were generated by adjusting for effects of sex, race, age, eye, and fundus pigmentation.Results: DA, CRAE, and CRVE were reduced in PDR compared to No DM (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.03). DV and CRVE were similar between No DM and No DR, but they were higher in NPDR than No DR (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.01). Effect of stage of disease on SO2A differed by race, being increased relative to No DM in NPDR and PDR in Hispanic participants only (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.02). Relative to No DM, SO2V was increased in NPDR and PDR (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05).Conclusions: Alterations in retinal vascular diameters and SO2 by diabetic retinopathy stage can be detected with a widely available SLO, and covariates such as race can influence the results. labels: #Adult#Aged#Diabetic Retinopathy#Equipment Design#Female#Hemoglobins#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ophthalmoscopes#Oximetry#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Retinal Vessels'
b'Purpose: Dry eye syndrome (DES) can cause blindness in severe cases, but mainly palliative treatments exist. A tissue-engineered lacrimal gland (LG) could provide a curative treatment. We aimed to evaluate decellularized porcine jejunum (SIS-Muc) as a scaffold for porcine LG epithelial cells.Methods: To evaluate SIS-Muc as a potential scaffold, basement membrane proteins in SIS-Muc and native LG were compared (immunohistochemistry [IHC]). Porcine LG epithelial cells cultured on plastic were characterized (immunocytochemistry), and their culture supernatant was compared with porcine tears (proteomics). Epithelial cells were then seeded onto SIS-Muc in either a static (cell crown) or dynamic culture (within a perfusion chamber) and metabolic (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) and secretory capacities (\xce\xb2-hexosaminidase assay), protein expression (IHC), and ultrastructure transmission electron microscopy (TEM) compared in each.Results: Collagen IV and laminin were found in both native LG and SIS-Muc. When cultured on plastic, LG epithelial cells expressed pan-cytokeratin, Rab3D, HexA, and produced mucins, but lysozyme and lactoferrin expression was nearly absent. Some porcine tear proteins (lipocalin-2 and lactoferrin) were found in LG epithelial cell culture supernatants. When LG cells were cultured on SIS-Muc, metabolic and \xce\xb2-hexosaminidase activities were greater in dynamic cultures than static cultures (P<0.05). In both static and dynamic cultures, cells expressed pan-cytokeratin, Rab3D, lysozyme, and lactoferrin and produced mucins, and TEM revealed cell polarization at the apical surface and cell-cell and cell-scaffold contacts.Conclusions: SIS-Muc is a suitable scaffold for LG cell expansion and may be useful toward reconstruction of LG tissue to provide a curative treatment for DES. Dynamic culture enhances cell metabolic and functional activities. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Disease Models, Animal#Dry Eye Syndromes#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Immunohistochemistry#Jejunum#Lacrimal Apparatus#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Ophthalmologic Surgical Procedures#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Swine#Tissue Engineering'
b'A 2240 gram boy was born at 33.2 weeks gestation with nonblanching, deeply erythematous plaques and papules on the back, flanks, and scalp (Figure 1). His mother was GBS positive and on antibiotic suppression for prior cutaneous MRSA and urinary tract infections. Intrapartum intravenous Penicillin G was administered, and the amniotic sac was artificially ruptured 4 hours prior to delivery to facilitate labor. The delivery was uncomplicated without concern for chorioamnionitis, but the patient initially required CPAP for respiratory distress with 1-minute and 5-minute Apgar scores of 7 and 8, respectively. A skin punch biopsy is shown (Figure 2). labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Apgar Score#Biopsy, Needle#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gestational Age#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Impetigo#Infant, Newborn#Infant, Premature#Male#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Newborn#Streptococcal Infections#Treatment Outcome'
b'We propose and analyze a compartmental nonlinear deterministic mathematical model for the typhoid fever outbreak and optimal control strategies in a community with varying population. The model is studied qualitatively using stability theory of differential equations and the basic reproductive number that represents the epidemic indicator is obtained from the largest eigenvalue of the next-generation matrix. Both local and global asymptotic stability conditions for disease-free and endemic equilibria are determined. The model exhibits a forward transcritical bifurcation and the sensitivity analysis is performed. The optimal control problem is designed by applying Pontryagin maximum principle with three control strategies, namely, the prevention strategy through sanitation, proper hygiene, and vaccination; the treatment strategy through application of appropriate medicine; and the screening of the carriers. The cost functional accounts for the cost involved in prevention, screening, and treatment together with the total number of the infected persons averted. Numerical results for the typhoid outbreak dynamics and its optimal control revealed that a combination of prevention and treatment is the best cost-effective strategy to eradicate the disease. labels: #Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Mass Screening#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Nonlinear Dynamics#Typhoid Fever'
b"In the frame of Higuchi's type functionality, this paper presents the anisotropy influences on the drug delivery mechanisms through the joint invariant functions to the simultaneous actions of the two SL(2R) isomorphic groups. Then, a new equation for drug delivery mechanism, independent of the type of polymer matrix and/or drug, is proposed. labels: #Anisotropy#Biocompatible Materials#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Diffusion#Drug Delivery Systems#Humans#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Polymers"
b'Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a syndrome with predominantly defective B cell function. However, abnormalities in the number and function of other lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood (PB) have been described in most patients. We have analysed the distribution of iNKT cell subpopulations in the PB of CVID patients and the ability of these cells to provide in\xc2\xa0vitro cognate B cell help. The total of iNKT cells was reduced in the PB of CVID patients, especially CD4+, CD4-/CD8- and CCR5+/CXCR3+. These findings were associated with an enrichment of memory-like and a tendency towards a reduction in TNF-\xce\xb1-expressing effector iNKT cells in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of CVID patients. Moreover, an accumulation of follicular helper iNKT cells in the PB of CVID patients was demonstrated. CVID \xce\xb1GalCer-pulsed iNKT cells are not able to induce autologous B cell proliferation although they do induce proliferation to healthy donor B cells. Interestingly, autologous and heterologous co-cultures did not differ in the amount of immunoglobulin secreted by B cells in\xc2\xa0vitro. Finally, reduced intracellular SAP expression in iNKT cells and other lymphocytes in the blood from CVID patients was observed. These results provide further insights into the immunological mechanisms underlying the iNKT cell defects and the potential targets to improve B cell help in CVID. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#B-Lymphocytes#CD4 Antigens#CD8 Antigens#Cell Communication#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Coculture Techniques#Common Variable Immunodeficiency#Female#Galactosylceramides#Humans#Immunoglobulins#Immunologic Memory#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Middle Aged#Natural Killer T-Cells#Receptors, CCR5#Receptors, CXCR3#Saposins#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Leishmania is a protozoan parasite that alternates its life cycle between the sand-fly vector and the mammalian host. This alternation involves environmental changes and leads the parasite to dynamic modifications in morphology, metabolism, cellular signaling and regulation of gene expression to allow for a rapid adaptation to new conditions. The L-arginine pathway in L. amazonensis is important during the parasite life cycle and interferes in the establishment and maintenance of the infection in mammalian macrophages. Host arginase is an immune-regulatory enzyme that can reduce the production of nitric oxide by activated macrophages, directing the availability of L-arginine to the polyamine pathway, resulting in parasite replication. In this work, we performed transcriptional profiling to identify differentially expressed genes in L. amazonensis wild-type (La-WT) versus L. amazonensis arginase knockout (La-arg-) promastigotes and axenic amastigotes.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A total of 8253 transcripts were identified in La-WT and La-arg- promastigotes and axenic amastigotes, about 60% of them codifying hypothetical proteins and 443 novel transcripts, which did not match any previously annotated genes. Our RNA-seq data revealed that 85% of genes were constitutively expressed. The comparison of transcriptome and metabolome data showed lower levels of arginase and higher levels of glutamate-5-kinase in La-WT axenic amastigotes compared to promastigotes. The absence of arginase activity in promastigotes increased the levels of pyrroline 5-carboxylate reductase, but decreased the levels of arginosuccinate synthase, pyrroline 5-carboxylate dehydrogenase, acetylornithine deacetylase and spermidine synthase transcripts levels. These observations can explain previous metabolomic data pointing to the increase of L-arginine, citrulline and L-glutamate and reduction of aspartate, proline, ornithine and putrescine. Altogether, these results indicate that arginase activity is important in Leishmania gene expression modulation during differentiation and adaptation to environmental changes. Here, we confirmed this hypothesis with the identification of differential gene expression of the enzymes involved in biosynthesis of amino acids, arginine and proline metabolism and arginine biosynthesis.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: All data provided information about the transcriptomic profiling and the expression levels of La-WT and La-arg- promastigotes and axenic amastigotes. These findings revealed the importance of arginase in parasite survival and differentiation, and indicated the existence of a coordinated response in the absence of arginase activity related to arginine and polyamine pathways. labels: #Arginase#Arginine#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Knockout Techniques#Leishmania mexicana#Macrophages#Nitric Oxide#Polyamines#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'The interferon (IFN)-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) encodes one of the most abundant proteins induced by interferon, and its expression is associated with antiviral immunity. To identify protein components implicated in IFN and ISG15 signaling, we compared the proteomes of ISG15-/- and ISG15+/+ bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDM) after vaccinia virus (VACV) infection. The results of this analysis revealed that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) were pathways altered in ISG15-/- BMDM treated with IFN. Mitochondrial respiration, Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was higher in ISG15+/+ BMDM than in ISG15-/- BMDM following IFN treatment, indicating the involvement of ISG15-dependent mechanisms. An additional consequence of ISG15 depletion was a significant change in macrophage polarization. Although infected ISG15-/- macrophages showed a robust proinflammatory cytokine expression pattern typical of an M1 phenotype, a clear blockade of nitric oxide (NO) production and arginase-1 activation was detected. Accordingly, following IFN treatment, NO release was higher in ISG15+/+ macrophages than in ISG15-/- macrophages concomitant with a decrease in viral titer. Thus, ISG15-/- macrophages were permissive for VACV replication following IFN treatment. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that ISG15 governs the dynamic functionality of mitochondria, specifically, OXPHOS and mitophagy, broadening its physiological role as an antiviral agent. labels: #Animals#Arginase#Cytokines#Enzyme Activation#Macrophages#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Degradation#Nitric Oxide#Oxidative Phosphorylation#Ubiquitins#Vaccinia#Vaccinia virus'
b'Background: For health care providers in the United States, the risk for nonfatal violence in the workplace is 16 times greater than that for other workers. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior (IPSB) is directed at clinicians, staff, or other patients and may include leering, sexual remarks, deliberate touching, indecent exposure, and sexual assault. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior may adversely affect clinicians, the organization, or patients themselves. Few IPSB risk factors for physical therapists have been confirmed. The US prevalence was last assessed in the 1990s.Objective: The objectives of this study were to determine career and 12-month exposure to IPSB among US physical therapists, physical therapist assistants, physical therapist students, and physical therapist assistant students and to identify IPSB risk factors.Design: This was a retrospective and observational study.Methods: An electronic survey was developed; content validity and test-retest reliability were established. Participants were recruited through physical therapist and physical therapist assistant academic programs and sections of the American Physical Therapy Association. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior risk models were constructed individually for any, mild, moderate, and severe IPSB events reported over the past 12 months. Open-ended comments were analyzed using qualitative methods.Results: Eight hundred ninety-two physical therapist professionals and students completed the survey. The career prevalence among respondents was 84%, and the 12-month prevalence was 47%. Statistical risk modeling for any IPSB over the past 12 months indicated the following risks: having fewer years of direct patient care, routinely working with patients with cognitive impairments, being a female practitioner, and treating male patients. Qualitative analysis of 187 open-ended comments revealed patient-related characteristics, provider-related characteristics, and abusive actions.Limitations: Self-report, clinician memory, and convenience sampling are limitations of this type of survey research.Conclusions: The extremely high prevalence of IPSB among physical therapist professionals warrants practitioner and student education as well as clear workplace policy and support. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Physical Therapy Specialty#Physician-Patient Relations#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk#Risk Factors#Sex Offenses#Sexual Behavior#United States'
b'Background: There is significant need for trials evaluating the long-term effectiveness of a rigorous program of perioperative behavioral therapy with pelvic floor muscle training (BPMT) in women undergoing transvaginal reconstructive surgery for prolapse.Objective: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of perioperative BPMT on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and sexual function following vaginal surgery for pelvic organ prolapse (POP) and stress urinary incontinence (SUI).Design: This study is a secondary report of a 2 \xc3\x97 2 factorial randomized controlled trial.Setting: This study was a multicenter trial.Participants: Participants were adult women with stage 2-4 POP and SUI.Intervention: Perioperative BPMT versus usual care and sacrospinous ligament fixation (SSLF) versus uterosacral ligament suspension (ULS) were provided.Measurements: Participants undergoing transvaginal surgery (SSLF or ULS for POP and a midurethral sling for SUI) received usual care or five perioperative BPMT visits. The primary outcome was change in body image and in Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ) short-form subscale, 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), Pelvic Organ Prolapse-Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire short form (PISQ-12), Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGII), and Brink scores.Results: The 374 participants were randomized to BPMT (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0186) and usual care (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0188). Outcomes were available for 137 (74%) of BPMT participants and 146 (78%) of the usual care participants at 24 months. There were no statistically significant differences between groups in PFIQ, SF-36, PGII, PISQ-12, or body image scale measures.Limitations: The clinicians providing BPMT had variable expertise. Findings might not apply to vaginal prolapse procedures without slings or abdominal apical prolapse procedures.Conclusions: Perioperative BPMT performed as an adjunct to vaginal surgery for POP and SUI provided no additional improvement in QOL or sexual function compared with usual care. labels: #Behavior Therapy#Body Image#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Pelvic Organ Prolapse#Perioperative Care#Quality of Life#Resistance Training#Sexual Behavior#Suburethral Slings#Surveys and Questionnaires#Treatment Outcome'
b'Background: The Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AM-PAC) is a generic metric of patient-reported functional status. The minimal clinically important difference (MCID) in the AM-PAC score has not been determined.Objective: The study objective was to determine the MCID for AM-PAC in people with low back pain.Design: This was a retrospective cohort study.Methods: Anchor-based and distribution-based methods were used to estimate the MCID. The Modified Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire was used as the anchor. Adults who had a primary ICD-9 code for low back pain in at least 1 outpatient physical therapist visit during an episode of care and who completed both the AM-PAC and the Modified Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire in at least 2 visits during the care episode were included. The MCID was calculated for the AM-PAC basic mobility version as well its adapted version, which the Cleveland Clinic uses for patients 65 years old or older.Results: A total of 1,271 participants were eligible for study. For the AM-PAC basic mobility version, anchor-based methods yielded MCID estimates of between 3.4 and 5.1, whereas distribution-based methods yielded estimates of 1.7 to 4.2. The minimal detectable change (MDC) for the AM-PAC basic mobility version was 3.3. For the adapted AM-PAC basic mobility version, the MCID was estimated to be between 2.9 and 4.0 via anchor-based methods and between 1.2 to 3.5 via distribution-based methods. The MDC for the adapted AM-PAC basic mobility version was 3.5.Limitations: The estimated MCID was designed for people with low back pain only.Conclusions: The MCID ranged from 3.3 to 5.1 for the AM-PAC basic mobility version and 3.5 to 4 for the adapted version, with the MDC as the lower limit. Changes in the AM-PAC for people with low back pain may be interpreted using the estimated MCID. Future studies are needed to determine the AM-PAC MCID for populations other than those with low back pain. labels: #Adult#Disability Evaluation#Exercise#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Middle Aged#Minimal Clinically Important Difference#Pain Measurement#Patient Reported Outcome Measures#Retrospective Studies#Subacute Care#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b"Background: Evidence-based guidelines are needed to inform rehabilitation practice, including the effect of number of exercise training sessions on recovery of walking ability after stroke.Objective: The objective of this study was to determine the response to increasing number of training sessions of 2 interventions-locomotor training and strength and balance exercises-on poststroke walking recovery.Design: This is a secondary analysis of the Locomotor Experience Applied Post-Stroke (LEAPS) randomized controlled trial.Setting: Six rehabilitation sites in California and Florida and participants' homes were used.Participants: Participants were adults who dwelled in the community (N=347), had had a stroke, were able to walk at least 3 m (10 ft) with assistance, and had completed the required number of intervention sessions.Intervention: Participants received 36 sessions (3 times per week for 12 weeks), 90 minutes in duration, of locomotor training (gait training on a treadmill with body-weight support and overground training) or strength and balance training.Measurements: Talking speed, as measured by the 10-Meter Walk Test, and 6-minute walking distance were assessed before training and following 12, 24, and 36 intervention sessions.Results: Participants at 2 and 6 months after stroke gained in gait speed and walking endurance after up to 36 sessions of treatment, but the rate of gain diminished steadily and, on average, was very low during the 25- to 36-session epoch, regardless of treatment type or severity of impairment.Limitations: Results may not generalize to people who are unable to initiate a step at 2 months after stroke or people with severe cardiac disease.Conclusions: In general, people who dwelled in the community showed improvements in gait speed and walking distance with up to 36 sessions of locomotor training or strength and balance exercises at both 2 and 6 months after stroke. However, gains beyond 24 sessions tended to be very modest. The tracking of individual response trajectories is imperative in planning treatment. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postural Balance#Recovery of Function#Resistance Training#Single-Blind Method#Stroke#Stroke Rehabilitation#Treatment Outcome#Walking#Walking Speed"
b'Background: The Pelvic Girdle Questionnaire (PGQ) is a condition-specific measure for women with pelvic girdle pain (PGP). The PGQ includes items relating to activity/participation and bodily symptoms and has reliability, validity, and feasibility for use in research and clinical practice.Objective: The purposes of this study were to examine the responsiveness of the PGQ, to determine the minimal important change (MIC) for the PGQ, and to compare the PGQ with other outcome measures.Design: This study used a prospective cohort design.Methods: A total of 801 women responded to a booklet of questionnaires in the last trimester of their pregnancy and within 3 months post partum. Responsiveness analyses followed recommendations from the Consensus-Based Standards for the Selection of Health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) checklist. The responsiveness of the PGQ was tested by examining correlations between the change scores of the total PGQ and the other patient-reported outcome measures.Results: A total of 606 women (76%) reported PGP, low back pain, or both. Of these women, 441 (73%) responded to the follow-up questionnaire post partum. The PGQ (both subscale and total scores) discriminated most accurately between participants who improved and those who did not improve, with an area under the receiver operator characteristic curve of 72%. The MIC values indicated that a change score smaller than 25 for the total score and activity subscale score and a change score of 20 for the symptom subscale score should be regarded as insignificant. Baseline PGQ scores had a large impact on the MIC estimates for the absolute change scores but not on the relative percentage change scores. Five of 6 hypotheses were supported (83%).Limitations: The type of anchor and definition of important change used might be weaknesses in women whose status is changing from pregnant to post partum.Conclusions: The PGQ showed acceptable responsiveness in women with PGP, low back pain, or both. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Minimal Clinically Important Difference#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Pelvic Girdle Pain#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'So called "personalized therapy" has revolutionized the care of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The discovery of more and more driver mutations in NSCLC has led to a molecular defined sub classification of lung cancer patients. For four driver mutations (EGFRmut, ALKtransl, ROS1transl, BRAF-V600mut) firstline approved drugs are available and became the treatment of choice. Further drugs are in clinical development or can be used as off-label treatment. The emergence of resistance under targeted therapy, the development of new drugs for further driver mutations and the broad implementation of molecular diagnostics for all lung cancer patients are future challenges. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Mutation#Precision Medicine'
b'Within the last years, significant improvements have been achieved in breast cancer treatment, particularly with the development of targeted therapies. Major progress has been made in identifying the drivers malignant growth in oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer and the mechanisms of resistance to endocrine therapy. This progress has translated into several targeted therapies that enhance the efficacy of endocrine therapy; inhibitors of the cyclin-dependent kinases CDK4 and CDK6 like palbociclib and inhibitors of mTOR substantially improve progression-free survival. For patients with HER2-positive disease the addition of Pertuzumab to Trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy has been a significant improvement in anti-HER2 therapy in early as well as metastatic breast cancer. Evidence-based further line therapy options in the metastatic setting include T-DM1 and in later lines Lapatinib. For triple negative disease the angiogenesis inhibitor Bevacizumab is approved, which increases progression free survival. Immune checkpoint inhibitors, PARP-inhibitors or anti-androgens represent promising strategies, all of which are currently being evaluated in clinical trials. The development of predictive biomarkers to guide targeted therapies is still the subject of research. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Molecular Targeted Therapy'
b'Colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is a major cause for cancer related death in Western countries. Particularly in the metastatic stage (mCRC) 5-year survival rate remains low at around 15\xe2\x80\x8a%. Treatment decisions are influenced by tumor stage, location of the primary, and extend of metastases. The multidisciplinary tumor board with an experienced hepato-biliary surgeon, an interventional radiologist, the medical oncologist, the molecular pathologist and the radiation oncologist will gain further importance in the quest for the optimal treatment for each patient. In the adjuvant setting, next to the established clinical risk factors, individualization especially for UICC-stage II patients can be done according to the CDX2-expression, the MSI-status, and perhaps the PIK3-status. In the metastatic stage, RAS and BRAF mutational analyses are pivotal to choose the best treatment for our patients. Primary tumor location in RAS-wild-type patients is further helping the clinician to tailor first-line treatment. Ongoing phase-III-trials will further help the clinician to come to a personalized decision. labels: #Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#DNA Mutational Analysis#Humans#Precision Medicine#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Survival Analysis'
b'Medical history\xe2\x80\x82We report on a 51-year-old male patient with thoracic pain of acute onset with radiation in the left arm. His cardiovascular risk factors include obesity, smoking and arterial hypertension.Investigations\xe2\x80\x82ECG showed no signs of ischemia. The blood\xc2\xa0test revealed increasing troponin (37\xe2\x80\x8apg/ml; Norm<\xe2\x80\x8a14\xe2\x80\x8apg/ml). Therefore we performed cardiac catheterization. The RIVA demonstrated a medial filling defect. Use of OCT imaging showed intimal rupture associated with thrombus.Treatment and course\xe2\x80\x82The lesion was stented with a drug eluting stent. We initiated a medication with aspirin, ticagrelor, metoprolol and simvastatin.Conclusion\xe2\x80\x82Coronary thrombosis of our patient was caused by spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD). SCAD\xe2\x80\x8ais an important differential diagnosis in patients with ACS. Further prospective studies and guideline recommendations are needed in the future. labels: #Chest Pain#Coronary Thrombosis#Coronary Vessel Anomalies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Non-ST Elevated Myocardial Infarction#Risk Factors#Vascular Diseases'
b'INTRODUCTION: Soft tissue occlusion of the external auditory canal (EAC) can cause intense pruritis, recurrent foul smelling otorrhea, recurrent otitis externa, and conductive hearing loss. Occlusion of the EAC can be challenging to treat as the area is prone to circumferential scarring.METHODS: We describe the novel use of serial bipolar radiofrequency ablation (coblation) to treat 3 children with complete EAC occlusion from congenital and acquired conditions including lymphedema (1), microcystic lymphatic malformation (1), and venolymphatic malformation (1).RESULTS: Patients underwent a mean of 3 procedures with postoperative EAC stenting (7 days) and antibiotic and steroid aural preparations (10 days). Otologic symptoms resolved in all patients, and their EACs remained patent 14 months after last procedure (range, 4-32 months). One patient experienced a pinpoint tympanic membrane perforation that healed spontaneously 2 weeks later.CONCLUSIONS: Coblation of soft tissue stenosis of the EAC can be an effective treatment for this problematic condition. labels: #Catheter Ablation#Child#Child, Preschool#Ear Canal#Ear Diseases#Female#Humans#Infant#Lymphatic Abnormalities#Male'
b'OBJECTIVES: Occupational voice users report higher instances of vocal health problems. Women, who are more likely than men to report voice problems, are the largest members of some occupational voice users, such as teachers. While a common complaint among this population is vocal fatigue, it has been difficult to quantify. Therefore, the goal of this study is to quantify vocal fatigue generally in school teachers and investigate any related gender differences.METHODS: Six hundred forty (518 female, 122 male) teachers were surveyed using an online questionnaire consisting in part of the Vocal Fatigue Index (VFI), an index specifically designed to quantify vocal fatigue.RESULTS: Compared to vocally healthy adults, the teachers surveyed were 3 times as likely to report vocal tiredness or vocal avoidance and over 3 times as likely to report physical voice discomfort. Additionally, female teachers were more likely to have scores approaching those with dysphonia.CONCLUSIONS: The VFI quantified elevated levels of vocal fatigue in teachers, with a significant prevalence of symptoms reported among females compared to males. Further, because the VFI indicated elevated complaints (between normal and dysphonic) in a population likely to be elevated, the VFI might be used to identify early indications of voice problems and/or track recovery. labels: #Adult#Educational Personnel#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Diseases#Prevalence#Sex Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires#Voice Disorders#Voice Quality'
b'OBJECTIVES: Tissue engineering of auricular cartilage has great potential in providing readily available materials for reconstructive surgeries. As the field of tissue engineering moves forward to developing human tissues, there needs to be an interspecies comparison of the native auricular cartilage in order to determine a suitable animal model to assess the performance of engineered auricular cartilage in vivo.METHODS: Here, we performed interspecies comparisons of auricular cartilage by comparing tissue microstructure, protein localization, biochemical composition, and mechanical properties of auricular cartilage tissues from rat, rabbit, pig, cow, and human.RESULTS: Human, pig, and cow auricular cartilage have smaller lacunae compared to rat and rabbit cartilage ( P<.05). Despite differences in tissue microstructure, human auricular cartilage has similar biochemical composition to both rat and rabbit. Auricular cartilage from pig and cow, alternatively, display significantly higher glycosaminoglycan and collagen contents compared to human, rat, and rabbit ( P<.05). The mechanical properties of human auricular cartilage were comparable to that of all 4 animal species.CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study that compares the microstructural, biochemical, and mechanical properties of auricular cartilage from different species. This study showed that different experimental animal models of human auricular cartilage may be suitable in different cases. labels: #Animals#Cattle#Ear Cartilage#Humans#Models, Animal#Rabbits#Rats#Swine#Tissue Engineering'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of in-office potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) treatment of vocal fold granulomas and identify any predictors of complete lesion resolution.METHODS: A retrospective review of patients who underwent in-office KTP ablation of vocal fold granulomas between 2007 and 2016 was performed. Medical records were reviewed for use of acid suppression medication, prior surgical treatment, voice therapy, laser settings, number of treatments, follow-up time, and Voice Handicap Index-10 (VHI-10) scores.RESULTS: Twenty-six patients underwent a total of 43 laser treatments. Eighty percent of patients were previously on acid suppression medication, and 42.3% had failed previous endoscopic treatments. Patients underwent a mean number of 1.65 \xc2\xb1 1.16 in-office treatments with decrease in size in 96.2% of cases. The VHI-10 was not significantly affected. Complete resolution occurred in 73.1% of cases with follow-up time ranging from 1 to 86 months (median = 9.5 months). No recurrences occurred in patients with complete resolution. Other than undergoing a single KTP treatment, no variable was found to be predictive of complete lesion resolution. Granuloma etiology was not predictive of lesion resolution but did correlate with symptom improvement.CONCLUSION: In-office pulsed KTP laser is an effective treatment option for vocal fold granulomas as the lesion resolves in the majority of cases. labels: #Aged#Ambulatory Surgical Procedures#Female#Granuloma, Laryngeal#Humans#Laser Therapy#Lasers, Solid-State#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vocal Cords#Voice Quality'
b'BACKGROUND: Stimuli-responsive polymer materials are a new kind of intelligent materials based on the concept of bionics, which exhibits more significant changes in physicochemical properties upon triggered by tiny environment stimuli, hence providing a good carrier platform for antitumor drug delivery.RESULTS: Dual stimuli-responsive Fe3O4graft poly(acrylic acid)-block-poly(2-methacryloyloxyethyl ferrocenecarboxylate) block copolymers (Fe3O4-g-PAA-b-PMAEFC) were engineered and synthesized through a two-step sequential reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer polymerization route. The characterization was performed by FTIR,1H NMR, SEC, XRD and TGA techniques. The self-assembly behavior in aqueous solution upon triggered by pH, magnetic and redox stimuli was investigated via zeta potentials, vibration sample magnetometer, cyclic voltammetry, fluorescent spectrometry, dynamic light scattering, XPS, TEM and SEM measurements. The experimental results indicated that the Fe3O4-g-PAA-b-PMAEFC copolymer materials could spontaneously assemble into hybrid magnetic copolymer micromicelles with core-shell structure, and exhibited superparamagnetism, redox and pH stimuli-responsive features. The hybrid copolymer micromicelles were stable and nontoxic, and could entrap hydrophobic anticancer drug, which was in turn swiftly and effectively delivered from the drug-loaded micromicelles at special microenvironments such as acidic pH and high reactive oxygen species.CONCLUSION: This class of stimuli-responsive copolymer materials is expected to find wide applications in medical science and biology, etc., especially in drug delivery system. labels: #Acrylic Resins#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Cell Line, Tumor#Delayed-Action Preparations#Drug Delivery Systems#Drug Liberation#Ferrosoferric Oxide#Ferrous Compounds#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Magnetic Fields#Micelles#Neoplasms#Oxidation-Reduction#Paclitaxel#Polymers'
b'BACKGROUND: Cerebral salt-wasting syndrome (CSWS) was initially described over 60 years ago in hyponatremic patients with a cerebral lesion. However, the diagnostic criteria for CSWS have not been fully established. Thus, when hyponatremia is observed in patients with CSWS, they may be misdiagnosed as having the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Thus, it is critical to differentiate between these 2 conditions because their treatments are diametrically opposed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We carried out a retrospective study of 45 patients with CSWS and compared them to 60 normonatremic control patients, and 28 patients with SIADH. All patients had their 24-hour urine volumes and sodium (Na) excretion measured.RESULTS: In patients with CSWS, urinary Na excretion was 394 \xc2\xb1 369mmol/24 hours and urinary volume was 2,603 \xc2\xb1 996mL/24 hours; both values significantly greater than in controls (P<0.01). By contrast, in patients with SIADH, the urine Na excretion was only 51 \xc2\xb1 25mmol/24 hours and urine volume was 745 \xc2\xb1 298mL/24 hours; values significantly lower than in patients with CSWS (P<0.01).CONCLUSIONS: CSWS was diagnosed in patients with cerebral lesion who had (1) symptomatic hyponatremia, (2) urine Na excretion 2 standard deviations above controls and (3) increased urine volume. Patients with SIADH also had symptomatic hyponatremia but, in contrast to patients with CSWS, they had decreased Na excretion and urine volume. Thus urine Na excretion and volume are very important for diagnosing the cause of hyponatremia in patients with cerebral lesions. labels: #Brain Diseases#Female#Humans#Hyponatremia#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sodium#Syndrome'
b'BACKGROUND: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a common and specific microvascular complication of diabetes. The association of bone metabolic markers with the risk of DR and diabetic macular edema (DME) is unclear.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We investigated the association between bone turnover markers commonly examined in a clinical setting and DR and DME risk in elderly Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). A total of 408 patients aged 55-70 years with T2DM were included. We first performed univariable logistic regression followed by multivariable logistic regression that included variables selected using purposeful selection.RESULTS: Fasting blood glucose (P = 0.007) and duration of diabetes (P<0.0001) were significantly associated with DME in multivariable logistic regression; however, the association of beta C-terminal telopeptide of collagen type I (\xce\xb2-CTx) with DME risk was not statistically significant (P = 0.053). Sex-stratified analysis showed that \xce\xb2-CTx was significantly associated with DME only in female subjects (P = 0.011).CONCLUSIONS: \xce\xb2-CTx had no significant association with DR. It was significantly associated with DME in female patients with T2DM, but not in male patients with T2DM. More prospective studies with larger sample sizes are warranted to validate our findings. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Bone Remodeling#Collagen Type I#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Macular Edema#Male#Middle Aged#Peptides#Sex Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite a rise in the prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), data on HCC-related hospitalizations and financial burden are limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate temporal trends of HCC-related hospitalizations and evaluate its financial influence.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with the diagnosis of HCC, as reported by International Classification of Diseases-Ninth Revision code, were identified from the National Inpatient Sample databases from 2002-2011. The national estimates of hospitalizations were derived using appropriate sample weights. The change in total average charges per each hospitalization over the study period was calculated after adjusting for inflation.RESULTS: Hospitalizations related to HCC have increased from 24,024 in 2002 to 50,609 in 2011. Of these admissions, HCC was the principal diagnosis in 10,762 and 16,350 subjects in 2002 and 2011, respectively. Most were white males (male: 70%; white: 55%). The overall inpatient mortality was significantly decreased from 13.5% in 2002 to 9.9% in 2011 (P<0.01). The same trend was also observed for the length of hospital stay (6.5 versus 5.6 days in 2002 and 2011, respectively). The inflation-adjusted cost per hospitalization increased by approximately 47% during the study period.CONCLUSIONS: Despite the decrease in mortality rate and length-of-stay, hospitalizations and financial burden associated with HCC continued to increase between 2002 and 2011 in the United States. labels: #Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cost of Illness#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Variation in baseline ear temperature, taken in the unadjusted mode, has yet to be established in different age groups. Because normal body temperatures show large variations, the same may be expected for increased temperatures in fever. The aims were to study variations in normothermic body temperatures measured with an ear thermometer and to determine differences between actual and perceived body temperature during a febrile episode (referred to as difftemp) in apparently healthy children and adults.METHODS: Ear temperature was measured once in 2,006 individuals (61.7% females): 683 children aged 2 and 4 years, 492 adolescents aged 10-18 years, 685 adults aged 19-65 years and 146 elderly aged 66-89 years. Difftemp was estimated as the difference between the individual's ear body temperature, measured in the present study, and the respondent's reported temperature when feverish.RESULTS: Mean ear temperature was 36.4 \xc2\xb1 0.6\xc2\xb0C overall and in the child and adult groups. In adolescents, it was 36.5 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C, and in elderly, 36.1 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C. Temperature in men was 36.3 \xc2\xb1 0.6\xc2\xb0C, and in women, 36.5 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C. Difftemp was 1.1 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in adolescents, 1.5 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in children and adults, and 1.6 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in those>65 years.CONCLUSIONS: Ear body temperature is lower than traditionally reported and differs with age and sex. An individual difftemp of 1.0-1.5\xc2\xb0C along with malaise might indicate fever. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aging#Body Temperature#Child#Child, Preschool#Ear#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Sex Factors#Thermometers"
b"BACKGROUND: Ischemic heart disease (IHD) has emerged as a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with autoimmune conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, but the risk of IHD in Sj\xc3\xb6gren's syndrome (SjS) is unknown. To fill this knowledge gap, we estimated the prevalence and risk of IHD with SjS compared to controls from the general population using the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project National Inpatient Sample 2011 database.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project administrative longitudinal database contains encounter-level information on inpatient stays, emergency department visits and ambulatory surgery in all U.S. hospitals. We conducted a cross-sectional study among the inpatient population diagnosed with SjS and matched 1:4 with controls for age, sex and hospital region. Odds ratio for IHD was calculated as cases compared to controls. The contribution of various risk factors to IHD was also evaluated by logistic regression.RESULTS: Analysis demonstrated that 7,154 of 13,086 cases (54.7%) of SjS had IHD compared to 27,367 of 52,448 controls (52.2%). The adjusted odds ratio for IHD in those with SjS was 0.898 (95% CI: 0.844-0.955). Patients with SjS were significantly more likely to have hypertension, diabetes, apnea and lipid disorders.CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest population-based study investigating the risk of IHD in patients with SjS. We found a modest, though statistically significant, decrease in the risk of IHD in SjS compared to controls. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Ischemia#Risk Factors#Sjogren's Syndrome#United States"
b'BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is commonly associated with cognitive dysfunction, which is more apparent in severe OSA and impairs quality of life. However, the clinical screening methods for these impairments in OSA are still limited. In this study, we evaluated the feasibility of using the Memory and Executive Screening (MES) for assessing cognitive performance in OSA.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four patients with nonsevere OSA and 36 patients with severe OSA participated in this study. All participants underwent comprehensive, laboratory-based polysomnography and completed assessments of cognitive function, which included both the MES and the Beijing version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA-BJ).RESULTS: Both the total MES scores and 5 recall scores of the MES (MES-5R) were significantly lower in the severe OSA group than those in the nonsevere OSA group. The patients with severe OSA performed worse on the memory subtests of the MES-5R, especially on immediate recall. The sensitivity and specificity of the MES for identifying cognitive impairment in patients with OSA were 63.89% and 66.67%, respectively, for a cutoff value of<92 out of 100 points. An optimal cutoff between nonsevere and severe OSA was also set at 45 points (MES-5R) and at 0.94 points (MES ratio). Compared with the MES, the MoCA-BJ had similar sensitivity (61.11%) and specificity (66.67%).CONCLUSIONS: The MES is an acceptable tool for detecting cognitive dysfunction in patients with OSA. The sensitivity and specificity of the MES were similar to those of the MoCA-BJ. The MES-5R and total MES scores can assess the presence and severity of cognitive impairment in patients with severe OSA. labels: #Adult#Cognitive Dysfunction#Humans#Male#Memory#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive'
b'BACKGROUND: Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) has emerged as a noninvasive method for assessing inflammation in lung diseases. Our aim is to investigate the correlation between tumor necrosis factor \xce\xb1 (TNF-\xce\xb1) and interleukin 1\xce\xb2 (IL-1\xce\xb2) in EBC and in lung tissue, and between these values in EBC with pulmonary function tests in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).MATERIALS AND METHODS: To ensure the availability of lung tissue, 60 patients undergoing resection for early lung cancer were divided into 3 groups: a COPD treatment group, a COPD control group and a non-COPD group. Patients in the COPD treatment group received what was termed "lung-protective treatment" including ambroxol, budesonide and ipratropium bromide in addition to chest physiotherapy. Patients underwent pulmonary function testing and EBC collection, and TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in lung tissues were evaluated by immunoflorescense. Correlations were analyzed by Pearson correlation coefficients.RESULTS: The TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 levels in EBC were significantly higher in the COPD groups compared with the non-COPD group before surgery (all P<0.01), and the levels were significantly decreased after lung-protective treatment was received before surgery (all P<0.01). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 levels in EBC were significantly decreased in all patients after surgery with lung-protective treatment (P = 0.027, P = 0.004). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 content in lung tissues was significantly higher in the COPD groups (all P<0.05), and the histologic analysis showed similar results. Negative correlations between FEV1/FVC and expression of TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 were observed. There was a positive correlation between TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in lung tissues and in EBC.CONCLUSIONS: TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in EBC are potential biomarkers for evaluating pulmonary function and inflammation in patients with COPD. Furthermore, lung-protective treatment is effective in reducing inflammation in patients with COPD. labels: #Aged#Ambroxol#Breath Tests#Budesonide#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Interleukin-1beta#Ipratropium#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Retrospective Studies#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'BACKGROUND: Colon cancer is a major health problem worldwide. Available treatments such as surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and anticancer drugs are limited due to stage of cancer, side effects and altered biodistribution. The use of peptides extracted from natural products has appeared as a potential therapy. Gloriosa superba is known to contain colchicine and other alkaloids with anticancer activity. However, these peptides contained within the extracts have not been studied. This study, therefore, focuses on an investigation of anti-colon cancer activity from a partially purified protein hydrolysate of G superba rhizome.METHODS: Dried G superba rhizome was extracted using 0.5% sodium dodecyl sulfate and digested with pepsin. The protein hydrolysates with molecular weight lesser than 3kDa were collected and subjected for cell viability assay. Then, the partial purification of the protein hydrolysate was performed using reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Fractions containing anticancer peptides were investigated, and their effects on apoptosis and protein expression using apoptosis test and Western blot, respectively.RESULTS: Partially purified peptides of G superba rhizome demonstrated anticolon activity in SW620 cells by inducing apoptosis through upregulation of p53 and downregulation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-\xce\xbaB).CONCLUSIONS: Consequently, G superba peptides showed high potential for further purification and development of anticolon therapeutics. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cercopithecus aethiops#Colchicaceae#Colonic Neoplasms#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Peptides#Plant Proteins#Rhizome#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Up-Regulation#Vero Cells'
b'BACKGROUND: Resveratrol, a kind of polyphenol, has the potential to activate the longevity gene in several cells, in the same manner as calorie restriction. We investigated the effect of resveratrol and \xcf\x89-3-line polyunsaturated fatty acid on surtuin 1 (SIRT1) gene expression in human monocytes (THP1) cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined the gene expression of THP1 cells using real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting analysis. Resveratol, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaeanoic acid (DHA) as n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid were added on THP1 cells. We observed the changes in the SIRT1 gene expression in those cells, under various doses of agents and in time courses. Then, we examined the interaction of glucose and mannitol on those agents\xd7\xb3 effect of the gene expression. The concentration range of glucose and mannitol was from 5-20mM, respectively.RESULTS: The SIRT1 gene expression could be defined in 24 and 48 hours both in real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis and in Western blotting. Resveratrol showed SIRT1 gene expression in a dose-dependent manner in the range of 0-20\xce\xbcM in both analyses. Although EPA at 10\xce\xbcM showed marked increase in SIRT1 gene expression compared to control condition in Western blotting, this phenomenon was not in dose-dependent manner. DHA did not exhibit any augmentation of SIRT1 gene expression in a dose-dependent manner in the range of 0-20\xce\xbcM in both analyses. We refined the dose-dependent inhibition of the SIRT1 gene expression within 20mM glucose medium. Although 20mM did not exhibit any inhibition, 10\xce\xbcM resveratrol induced the gene expression compared to control medium. Both 5 and 15mM mannitol medium did not significantly alter basic gene expression and 10\xce\xbcM resveratrol-induced gene expression.CONCLUSIONS: The present results suggest that resveratrol and EPA, but not DHA, markedly activated the SIRT1 gene expression in THP1 cells, and that high glucose medium could inhibit the basic gene expression, but not powerful resveratrol-induced gene expression, in those cells. labels: #Cell Line, Tumor#Docosahexaenoic Acids#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Eicosapentaenoic Acid#Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic#Glucose#Humans#Mannitol#Monocytes#Sirtuin 1#Stilbenes'
b'BACKGROUND: Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene (MIC) polymorphisms have been associated with many autoimmune diseases. To explore the correlation between MIC polymorphisms and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we compared the sequence of the MIC gene in Han Chinese patients with SLE from Hainan Island, China, with healthy individuals.METHODS: In this study, the MIC polymorphisms in 296 subjects (159 patients with SLE and 137 healthy volunteers) of Han ethnicity from Hainan Island were characterized. A chi-square test was performed to evaluate the differences in the allelic frequency of the MIC genes between patients with SLE and the control subjects.RESULTS: The genotyping results indicated that the frequencies of the MICA*010, MICB*014, and MICB*002 alleles were significantly higher in the control subjects than the patients with SLE. Additionally, the results also indicated that the frequency of the MICB*009N in the SLE group was significantly increased compared to that in the matched control subjects.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggested that the MICB*009N allele might be a risk factor for SLE, whereas the MICB*014, MICA*010 and MICB*002 alleles were associated with reduced incidence of SLE in the study population. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Histocompatibility Antigens Class I#Humans#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Genetic'
b'PURPOSE: Masticatory muscle pain disorders respond well to conservative therapy; however, in some patients the pain becomes refractory. Botulinum toxin type A (BoT-A) therapy has been shown to be an effective modality in the management of refractory headache disorders. Conversely, there are conflicting reports in the literature regarding the efficacy, safety, and predictors of therapeutic response to BoT-A therapy for management of refractory masticatory muscle pain.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart review of patients who underwent at least 2 injection cycles of 100 U of BoT-A for refractory masticatory myalgia in the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, between May 2012 and June 2016. Information regarding demographic, diagnostic, and therapeutic characteristics was extracted and analyzed. The \xcf\x872test was used for analysis between independent and dependent variables. Forward step-wise-type logistic regression analysis was conducted to determine the predictors of outcome.RESULTS: Among 116 participants, 30.6% reported significant relief in pain for a mean period of 10.1\xc2\xa0weeks. A total of 16.4% of participants reported at least 1 adverse effect. The effectiveness of the\xc2\xa0BoT-A therapy was found to be statistically associated with the presence of muscle hypertrophy (P\xc2\xa0= .004), range of motion (P\xc2\xa0= .02), concurrent use of opioid analgesics (P\xc2\xa0= .003), and local anesthetic trigger-point injections (P\xc2\xa0= .003). Logistic regression analyses suggested that the presence of muscle hypertrophy and occurrence of adverse effects were predictors of positive outcome. On the contrary, concurrent use of opioid analgesics was found to be a predictor for no or minimal relief.CONCLUSIONS: BoT-A therapy provides significant relief for approximately one third of patients with refractory masticatory muscle pain. Therapy is associated with a mild risk of adverse effects. The presence of muscle hypertrophy, occurrence of an adverse effect, and concurrent use of opioid analgesics were found to be predictors of outcome response. labels: #Botulinum Toxins, Type A#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Male#Masticatory Muscles#Middle Aged#Myalgia#Neuromuscular Agents#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Sclerotherapy has been described as a treatment option for nonparasitic pediatric splenic cysts; however, there are limited data on its long-term effectiveness.METHODS: We performed a retrospective review and prospective follow-up imaging study of children treated for nonparasitic splenic cysts at our institution during 2006-2015. Included patients had International Classification of Disease, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification diagnosis code 289.59 or 759.0 and underwent either sclerotherapy or a partial splenic operation (partial splenectomy, cyst excision, or marsupialization). Charts were reviewed for demographics, imaging, treatments, and complications. Identified patients were contacted and asked to return for splenic ultrasonography.RESULTS: Six surgical patients and 19 sclerotherapy patients were identified. Sclerotherapy patients underwent a median of four treatments with a decrease in the size of the cyst or complete ablation in 89.5% (17/19). Of the two patients who underwent unsuccessful sclerotherapy, one patient had sclerotherapy with sotradecol and ethanol for eight treatments, developed infection, and underwent total splenectomy. The other patient did not improve with sclerotherapy and underwent partial splenectomy. Nine patients (eight patients treated with sclerotherapy and one patient treated with partial splenectomy) were successfully contacted and underwent follow-up imaging at a median follow-up of 2.4\xc2\xa0y since last treatment. Of the eight patients treated with sclerotherapy, four patients remained cyst-free, three had small residual asymptomatic cysts stable in size, and one developed a recurrent small asymptomatic cyst; the patient treated with surgery had no recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Sclerotherapy appears to be an effective and durable alternative treatment for children with splenic cysts. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Cysts#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Recurrence#Retrospective Studies#Sclerotherapy#Splenectomy#Splenic Diseases#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography'
b'BACKGROUND: Energy-based devices are used in nearly every laparoscopic operation. Radiofrequency energy can transfer to nearby instruments via antenna and capacitive coupling without direct contact. Previous studies have described inadvertent energy transfer through bundled cords and nonelectrically active wires. The purpose of this study was to describe a new mechanism of stray energy transfer from the monopolar instrument through the operating surgeon to the laparoscopic telescope and propose practical measures to decrease the risk of injury.METHODS: Radiofrequency energy was delivered to a laparoscopic L-hook (monopolar "bovie"), an advanced bipolar device, and an ultrasonic device in a laparoscopic simulator. The tip of a 10-mm telescope was placed adjacent but not touching bovine liver in a standard four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy setup. Temperature increase was measured as tissue temperature from baseline nearest the tip of the telescope which was never in contact with the energy-based device after a 5-s open-air activation.RESULTS: The monopolar L-hook increased tissue temperature adjacent to the camera/telescope tip by 47\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08\xc2\xb0C from baseline (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). By having an assistant surgeon hold the camera/telescope (rather than one surgeon holding both the active electrode and the camera/telescope), temperature change was reduced to 26\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa07\xc2\xb0C (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Alternative energy devices significantly reduced temperature change in comparison to the monopolar instrument (47\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08\xc2\xb0C) for both the advanced bipolar (1.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.5\xc2\xb0C; P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and ultrasonic (0.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.3\xc2\xb0C; P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) devices.CONCLUSIONS: Stray energy transfers from the monopolar "bovie" instrument through the operating surgeon to standard electrically inactive laparoscopic instruments. Hand-to-hand coupling describes a new form of capacitive coupling where the surgeon\'s body acts as an electrical conductor to transmit energy. Strategies to reduce stray energy transfer include avoiding the same surgeon holding the active electrode and laparoscopic camera or using alternative energy devices. labels: #Animals#Burns, Electric#Cattle#Electrosurgery#Energy Transfer#Hand#Humans#Laparoscopy#Liver#Occupational Injuries#Surgeons'
b'BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to assess the rate of 30-d hospital readmissions after ambulatory laparoscopic cholecystectomy.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The 2009 to 2011 State Ambulatory Surgery and Services and State Inpatient Databases from California, Florida, and New York were analyzed to evaluate the incidence of 30-d readmissions after laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed in outpatient settings. Hospital transfers and the principal diagnoses of hospital readmission were analyzed as secondary outcomes. Multilevel generalized mixed linear regression analyses with fixed and random effects were used to evaluate variables associated with increased likelihood of readmissions.RESULTS: A total of 230,745 encounters for ambulatory laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed in 890 ambulatory facilities between 2009 and 2011 in the three states were analyzed. The rate of 30-d readmission was 20.2 per 1000 discharges. The rate of direct transfers from the ambulatory surgery center to an acute care hospital was 0.6 per 1000 discharges. The most common diagnoses of readmission were surgical complications, postoperative pain, infection, and nausea or vomiting. After adjusting for comorbidities, increasing age, male sex, non-Hispanic white race/ethnicity, any nonprivate insurance type, diagnosis of acute cholecystitis, use of intraoperative cholangiography, and having the procedure performed on a weekend were significantly associated with increased odds of 30-d readmissions.CONCLUSIONS: This large-state data analysis reveals that the unplanned admission and readmission rates after laparoscopic cholecystectomy are very low. Some causes of readmission (e.g., pain, nausea, and vomiting) are modifiable by the intervention of surgeons and anesthesia providers. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Ambulatory Surgical Procedures#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The best operative strategy for necrotizing pancreatitis remains controversial. Traditional surgical necrosectomy is associated with significant morbidity; endoscopic and percutaneous strategies require repeated interventions with prolonged hospitalizations. We have developed a transgastric approach to pancreatic necrosectomy to overcome the shortcomings of the other techniques described.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with necrotizing pancreatitis treated from 2009 to 2016 at an academic center were retrospectively reviewed. Open or laparoscopic transgastric necrosectomy was performed if the area of necrosis was walled-off and in a retrogastric position on cross-sectional imaging. Study endpoints included postoperative complications and mortality.RESULTS: Forty-six patients underwent transgastric necrosectomy (nine open and 37 laparoscopic). Median (interquartile range) preoperative Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation II score was 6 (3-12). Seventy percent of patients had>30% necrosis on preoperative imaging; infected necrosis was present in 35%. Median total length of stay (LOS) was 6 (3-12) d. No patient required a second operative debridement; four patients (9%) had short-term postoperative percutaneous drainage for residual fluid collections. Median follow-up was 1\xc2\xa0y; there were no fistula or wound complications. Six patients (13%) had postoperative bleeding; five patients received treatment by image-guided embolization. There was one death in the cohort.CONCLUSIONS: Transgastric pancreatic necrosectomy allows for effective debridement with a single definitive operation. When anatomically suitable, this operative strategy offers expedited recovery and avoids long-term morbidity associated with fistulas and prolonged drainage. labels: #Adult#Aged#Debridement#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreatectomy#Pancreatitis, Acute Necrotizing#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Stomach#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Computed tomography (CT) imaging has an established role in the initial evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma. What is less clear is the role of CT in guiding delayed exploration in patients initially managed nonoperatively after blunt trauma. We hypothesized that a repeat CT would accurately identify the need for an exploratory laparotomy in this patient population.MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 2005 to 2014, we reviewed all blunt abdominal trauma patients at our institution who received an admission CT scan. We identified patients who underwent repeat CT of the abdomen within 72\xc2\xa0h for the documented purpose of reevaluating potential intra-abdominal injuries. CT findings were categorized as either having a CT indication for exploration or not, allowing a sensitivity analysis.RESULTS: Of the 50 patients who met our inclusion criteria, 9 underwent surgical exploration of the abdomen and 41 did not. Admission clinical indicators such as Glasgow Coma Scale, Injury Severity Score, and vitals were similar between the operative and nonoperative groups (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05). When compared with initial CT scan, repeat scan was found to increase the sensitivity from 67% to 100%, while also improving the specificity to 86%, positive predictive value to 50%, and negative predictive value to 100%.CONCLUSIONS: Repeat CT scan of the abdomen may be useful in evaluating blunt trauma patients initially managed nonoperatively. The second CT scan increases the sensitivity of CT evaluation to 100% while also improving the specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value. labels: #Abdominal Injuries#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Delayed Diagnosis#Female#Humans#Laparotomy#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Wounds, Nonpenetrating#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Rapidly resolving acute subdural hematomas (RRASDHs) have been described in case reports and case series but are still poorly understood. We hypothesized that a cohort analysis would confirm previously reported predictors of RRASDH including coagulopathy, additional intracranial hemorrhage, and low-density band on imaging. We also hypothesized that rapid resolution would be associated with improved trauma outcomes.METHODS: We reviewed all nonoperative acute subdural hematomas (ASDHs) treated at our center from 2011 to 2015. Inclusion criteria were ASDH on computed tomography (CT), admission Glasgow coma score>7, and repeat CT to evaluate ASDH change. RRASDH was defined as reduced hematoma thickness by 50% within 72\xc2\xa0h. Clinical data, CT findings, and trauma end points were analyzed for the RRASDH and nonresolving groups.RESULTS: There were 154 ASDH patients included, with 29 cases of RRASDH. The RRASDH group had a lower rate of comorbidities than the nonresolving group (58.6% versus 78.4%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03) and a lower rate of prehospital anticoagulation (7.7% versus 37.1%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.004). Previously reported predictors of RRASDH did not differ between the groups, nor did any clinical outcome measures. When compared with patients who experienced rapid growth (>50% increased width in 72\xc2\xa0h), the RRASDH group had lower mortality (3.4% versus 23.5%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.04).CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest review of RRASDHs. We identified two previously unrecognized factors that may predict resolution; however, previously reported predictors were not associated with resolution. We also found no relationship between RRASDHs and improved standard trauma outcomes, calling into question the clinical significance of RRASDH. labels: #Adult#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hematoma, Subdural, Acute#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Remission, Spontaneous#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'Metabolic health and positive symptom severity has been investigated in schizophrenia, but not in clinical high risk (CHR) patients. We hypothesized that greater body mass index (BMI) in CHR patients would be related to less positive symptoms. We examined this relationship in CHR patients being treated with 1) no psychotropic medications (n = 58), 2) an antipsychotic (n = 14), or 3) an antidepressant without an antipsychotic (n = 10). We found no relationship between BMI and positive symptoms in unmedicated CHR patients, the majority of whom had a narrow BMI range between 20 and 30. However, in the smaller sample of CHR patients taking an antidepressant or antipsychotic, BMI was negatively correlated with positive symptoms. Although potentially underpowered, these preliminary findings provide initial steps in elucidating the relationships between metabolic health, neurochemistry, and symptom severity in CHR patients. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Antidepressive Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Body Mass Index#Female#Humans#Male#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales#Psychotic Disorders#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Young Adult'
b'Self-harm refers to the purposeful destruction of bodily tissue without suicidal intention and for purposes that are not socially sanctioned. Little is known about the associations between a history of self-harm, mood symptoms, and functioning in adults with different types of mood disorders. Lifetime histories of self-harm, current mood symptoms, global functioning, and affective traits were collected on 142 adults with mood disorders. The prevalence of lifetime self-harm was higher in patients with bipolar disorder compared with patients with a unipolar depressive disorder. Self-harm was also more strongly linked to impulsivity in individuals with bipolar disorder compared with unipolar depressive disorder. Across both diagnoses, histories of self-harm were related to lower levels of current global functioning, more severe depressive symptoms, and high self-reported emotional dysregulation and neuroticism. Findings indicate that self-harm is a potent prognostic variable for symptoms, global functioning, and personality functioning in individuals with mood disorders. labels: #Adult#Affect#Bipolar Disorder#Depressive Disorder#Female#Humans#Impulsive Behavior#Male#Personality Assessment#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales#Psychological Tests#Self-Injurious Behavior#Severity of Illness Index#Social Adjustment'
b'BACKGROUND: Hantavirus, the hemorrhagic causative agent of two clinical diseases, is found worldwide with variation in severity, incidence and mortality. The most lethal hantaviruses are found on the American continent where the most prevalent viruses like Andes virus and Sin Nombre virus are known to cause hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. New World hantavirus infection of immunocompetent hamsters results in an asymptomatic infection except for Andes virus and Maporal virus; the only hantaviruses causing a lethal disease in immunocompetent Syrian hamsters mimicking hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in humans.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Hamsters, immunosuppressed with dexamethasone and cyclophosphamide, were infected intramuscularly with different New World hantavirus strains (Bayou virus, Black Creek Canal virus, Ca\xc3\xb1o Delgadito virus, Choclo virus, Laguna Negra virus, and Maporal virus). In the present study, we show that immunosuppression of hamsters followed by infection with a New World hantavirus results in an acute disease that precisely mimics both hantavirus disease in humans and Andes virus infection of hamsters.CONCLUSIONS/ SIGNIFICANCE: Infected hamsters showed specific clinical signs of disease and moreover, histological analysis of lung tissue showed signs of pulmonary edema and inflammation within alveolar septa. In this study, we were able to infect immunosuppressed hamsters with different New World hantaviruses reaching a lethal outcome with signs of disease mimicking human disease. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Cricetinae#Cyclophosphamide#Dexamethasone#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Hantavirus#Hantavirus Infections#Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Immunosuppression#Immunosuppressive Agents#Lung#Mesocricetus#Survival Analysis'
b"This is the first integrated study of the effects on gastric secretion, inflammation and fundic mucins after infection with L3 T. circumcincta and in the very early period following transplantation of adult worms. At 3 months-of-age, 20 Coopworth lambs were infected intraruminally with 35,000 L3; infected animals were killed on Days 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 post-infection and 6 controls on either Day 0 or 30 post-infection. Another 15 Romney cross lambs received 10,000 adult worms at 4-5 months-of-age though surgically-implanted abomasal cannulae and were killed after 6, 12, 24 and 72 hours; uninfected controls were also killed at 72 hours. Blood was collected at regular intervals from all animals for measurement of serum gastrin and pepsinogen and abomasal fluid for pH measurement from cannulated sheep. Tissues collected at necropsy were fixed in Bouin's fluid for light microscopy, immunocytochemistry and mucin staining and in Karnovsky's fluid for electron microscopy. Nodules around glands containing developing larvae were seen on Day 5 p.i., but generalised effects on secretion occurred only after parasite emergence and within hours after transplantation of adult worms. After L3 infection, there were maximum worm burdens on Days 10-15 post-infection, together with peak tissue eosinophilia, inhibition of gastric acid secretion, hypergastrinaemia, hyperpepsinogenaemia, loss of parietal cells, enlarged gastric pits containing less mucin and increased numbers of mucous neck cells. After adult transplantation, serum pepsinogen was significantly increased after 9 hours and serum gastrin after 18 hours. Parallel changes in host tissues and the numbers of parasites in the abomasal lumen suggest that luminal parasites, but not those in the tissues, are key drivers of the pathophysiology and inflammatory response in animals exposed to parasites for the first time. These results are consistent with initiation of the host response by parasite chemicals diffusing across the surface epithelium, possibly aided by components of ES products which increased permeability. Parietal cells appear to be a key target, resulting in secondary increases in serum gastrin, pit elongation, loss of surface mucins and inhibition of chief cell maturation. Inflammation occurs in parallel, and could either cause the pathology or exacerbate the direct effects of ES products. labels: #Animals#Gastric Mucins#Gastrins#Larva#Pepsinogen A#Sheep#Sheep Diseases#Stomach Diseases#Stomach, Ruminant#Trichostrongyloidea#Trichostrongyloidiasis"
b'The new-shoot-growing stage is an important period of apple tree nutrition distribution. The objective of this study is to provide technical support for apple tree nutrition diagnosis by constructing quantitative evaluation models between the apple leaf nitrogen content during the new-shoot-growing stage and characteristic spectral parameters. The correlation coefficients between the original spectral data and the nitrogen content were calculated. Then, the sensitive bands of the nitrogen content were selected using the theory of two-dimensional (2D) correlation spectroscopy. Finally, partial least squares regression (PLSR) and support vector machine (SVM) evaluation models were established using 2 parameters: Rx (maximum spectral reflectivity in the waveband) and Sx (total spectral reflectivity in the waveband). The results showed that the sensitive bands in the 2D correlation synchronous and asynchronous spectrograms were 537-560 nm and 708-719 nm. The PLSR model can be used to estimate the nitrogen content. Compared with PLSR, SVM provided better modeling and testing results, with a larger coefficient of determination (R2) and a smaller root-mean-square error (RMSE). The SVM model based on Sx was a good backup method. The calibration R2 of the model was 0.821, its RMSE was 0.710 g\xc2\xb7kg-1, the validation R2 was 0.768, and its RMSE was 1.019 g\xc2\xb7kg-1. The SVM model based on 2D correlation spectroscopy can be used to quantitatively estimate the nitrogen content in apple leaves. labels: #Biobehavioral Sciences#Malus#Nitrogen#Plant Leaves#Plant Shoots#Spectrum Analysis'
b'PURPOSE: To analyze the effect of birth weight on ocular morphology, refraction and visual function in early adolescents aged 12-15 years.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We conducted a secondary data analysis using the public use files from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey of the period from 1999 to 2008. Study participants aged 12 to 15 years were included with data on birth weight and ophthalmic parameters including presenting distance visual acuity, objective refraction and keratometry. Visual acuity, sphere, astigmatism in power vectors J0 and J45, corneal power and corneal astigmatism were evaluated for an association with birth weight. Linear and logistic regression with adjustment for age, sex, ethnicity, survey cycle and birth weight as independent variable were calculated.RESULTS: Linear regression analysis revealed an association between corneal power and birth weight (per 100g: beta = -0.04, p<0.001) in the univariate analysis, and in the model adjusted for age, sex, ethnicity and NHANES survey cycle (per 100g: beta = -0.04, p<0.001). A lower birth weight was associated with higher corneal power. We found no evidence for an association of visual acuity, sphere, spherical equivalent, J0-vector and J45-vector of astigmatism, corneal J0- or corneal J45-vector with birth weight.CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate that low BW is linked to alterations in keratometric power even in early adolescents aged 12-15 years whereas visual acuity and refractive error showed no association. labels: #Adolescent#Age Factors#Astigmatism#Birth Weight#Child#Child, Preschool#Cornea#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Refraction, Ocular#Sex Factors#United States#Vision, Ocular'
b'Cellular permissiveness to HIV infection is highly heterogeneous across individuals. Heterogeneity is also found across CD4+ T cells from the same individual, where only a fraction of cells gets infected. To explore the basis of permissiveness, we performed single-cell RNA-seq analysis of non-infected CD4+ T cells from high and low permissive individuals. Transcriptional heterogeneity translated in a continuum of cell states, driven by T-cell receptor-mediated cell activation and was strongly linked to permissiveness. Proteins expressed at the cell surface and displaying the highest correlation with T cell activation were tested as biomarkers of cellular permissiveness to HIV. FACS sorting using antibodies against several biomarkers of permissiveness led to an increase of HIV cellular infection rates. Top candidate biomarkers included CD25, a canonical activation marker. The combination of CD25 high expression with other candidate biomarkers led to the identification of CD298, CD63 and CD317 as the best biomarkers for permissiveness. CD25highCD298highCD63highCD317high cell population showed an enrichment of HIV-infection of up to 28 fold as compared to the unsorted cell population. The purified hyper-permissive cell subpopulation was characterized by a downregulation of interferon-induced genes and several known restriction factors. Single-cell RNA-seq analysis coupled with functional characterization of cell biomarkers provides signatures of the "HIV-permissive cell". labels: #CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cells, Cultured#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Single-Cell Analysis#Virus Replication'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Liver steatosis has shown to be associated with coronary artery disease (CAD). The aim of our study was to evaluate the association between the presence and severity of CAD and Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) assessed by transient elastography (TE) and controlled attenuation parameter (CAP).METHODS: 576 Patients undergoing coronary angiography were enrolled in this prospective study, receiving at least 10 TE and CAP measurements using the FibroScan\xc2\xae M-probe. Clinically relevant CAD (CAD 3) was defined as stenosis with \xe2\x89\xa575% reduction of the luminal diameter. NAFLD was determined by CAP \xe2\x89\xa5234 dB/m. NAFLD with advanced fibrosiswas determined by TE-values \xe2\x89\xa57.9kPa in the presence of NAFLD and absence of congestive or right-sided heart failure. Rates and 95% confidence intervals are shown.RESULTS: 505 patients were available for analysis of NAFLD. However, only 392 patients were available for analysis of NAFLD with advanced fibrosis, since 24 patients had to be excluded due to non valid TE-measurements and 89 patients due to congestive or right-sided heart failure or suspected concomitant liver disease, respectively. 70.5% (66.3%-74.4%) of patients had CAD 3, 71.5% (67.3%-75.4%) were diagnosed with NAFLD, and 11.2% (8.3%-14.8%) with NAFLD with advanced fibrosis. Patients with CAD 3 had higher median CAP-values (273\xc2\xb161 vs. 260\xc2\xb166 dB/m; p = 0.038) and higher degrees of steatosis as compared to patients without CAD 3. While NAFLD was significantly more often diagnosed in patients with CAD 3 (75.0% vs. 63.1%, p = 0.0068), no significant difference was found for NAFLD with advanced fibrosis (10.7% vs. 12.5%, p = 0.60).CONCLUSIONS: Clinically relevant CAD is frequently associated with the presence of NAFLD, but not NAFLD with advanced fibrosis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Humans#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Prospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index'
b'INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to determine the effect of combining positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy and mandibular advancement device (MAD) in patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) who were pressure intolerant for PAP and were unresponsive to MAD.METHODS: This retrospective study reviewed the medical records of severe OSA patients with apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) \xe2\x89\xa5 30/hr who were diagnosed between October 1, 2008 and June 30, 2014. Patients were initially treated with 2 weeks of PAP, and those who were intolerant to high-pressure PAP (\xe2\x89\xa515 cm H2O) were switched to 12 weeks of MAD, which is a monobloc designed at 75% of maximum protrusion. Patients who had high residual AHI (\xe2\x89\xa515/hr) on MAD underwent 12 weeks of combination therapy (CT) with MAD and CPAP and were enrolled in the present study. Enrolled subjects who completed the 12-week CT were followed-up until June 30, 2016.RESULTS: A total of 14 male patients were included. All three treatments effectively reduced AHI, oxygen desaturation index (ODI), and total sleep time with SpO2<90% (% TST-SpO2<90%) compared to pretreatment values. The residual AHI and ODI on CT was lower than that on MAD or PAP. The residual % TST-SpO2<90% was lower than that on MAD and similar to that on PAP. The therapeutic pressure on CT was on average 9.2 cm H2O lower than that on PAP. For the 11 patients who completed CT, only CT reduced ESS compared to pretreatment value. No treatment had significant impact on % slow wave sleep or overnight change of blood pressure. For patients who completed CT, the average usage was 5.9\xc2\xb11.7 hr/night at 12th week and 6.4\xc2\xb11.5 hr/night at a median follow-up of 36.5-months.CONCLUSIONS: Combining MAD and CPAP showed additive effects on reducing AHI and ODI, and lowered the therapeutic pressures. labels: #Blood Pressure#Combined Modality Therapy#Continuous Positive Airway Pressure#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mandibular Advancement#Middle Aged#Patient Compliance#Retrospective Studies#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Failure'
b"Human pegivirus (HPgV) protects HIV+ people from HIV-associated disease, but the mechanism of this protective effect remains poorly understood. We sequentially infected cynomolgus macaques with simian pegivirus (SPgV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) to model HIV+HPgV co-infection. SPgV had no effect on acute-phase SIV pathogenesis-as measured by SIV viral load, CD4+ T cell destruction, immune activation, or adaptive immune responses-suggesting that HPgV's protective effect is exerted primarily during the chronic phase of HIV infection. We also examined the immune response to SPgV in unprecedented detail, and found that this virus elicits virtually no activation of the immune system despite persistently high titers in the blood over long periods of time. Overall, this study expands our understanding of the pegiviruses-an understudied group of viruses with a high prevalence in the global human population-and suggests that the protective effect observed in HIV+HPgV co-infected people occurs primarily during the chronic phase of HIV infection. labels: #Animals#Coinfection#Disease Models, Animal#Flaviviridae Infections#GB virus C#Macaca fascicularis#Simian Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome#Simian Immunodeficiency Virus"
b'BACKGROUND: We assessed whether a short training, effective in a high resource country, was able to improve the quality of face-mask ventilation (FMV) in a low resource setting.METHODS: Local healthcare providers at the Centre M\xc3\xa9dico-Social, Kouv\xc3\xa8, Togo were asked to ventilate a neonatal leak-free manikin before (time-t1) and after (t2) a two-minute training session. Immediately after this section, a further two-minute training with participants aware of the data monitor was offered. Finally, a third 1-minute FMV round (t3) was performed by each participant. Ventilatory parameters were recorded using a computerized system. Primary outcome was the percentage of breaths with relevant mask leak (>25%). Secondary outcomes were percentages of breaths with a low peak inspiratory pressure (PIP<20 cm H2O), within the recommended PIP (20-35 cm H2O) and with a high PIP (>35 cm H2O).RESULTS: Twenty-six subjects participated in the study. The percentage of relevant mask leak significantly decreased (p<0.0001; \xce\xb2 = -0.76, SE = 0.10) from 89.7% (SD 21.5%) at t1 to 45.4% (SD 27.2%) at t2 and to 18.3% (SD 20.1%) at t3. The percentage of breaths within the recommended PIP significantly increased (p<0.0001; \xce\xb2 = +0.54, SE = 0.12). The percentage of breaths with PIP>35 cm H2O was 19.5% (SD 32.8%) at t1 and 39.2% (SD 37.7%) at t2 (padj = 0.27; \xce\xb2 = +0.61, SE = 0.36) and significantly decreased (padj = 0.01; \xce\xb2 = -1.61, SE = 0.55) to 6.0% (SD 15.4%) at t3.CONCLUSIONS: A 2-minute training on FMV, effective in a high resource country, had a positive effect also in a low resource setting. FMV performance further improved after an extra 2-minute verbal recall plus real time feedback. Although the training was extended, it still does not cost much time and effort. Further studies are needed to establish if these basic skills are transferred in real patients and if they are maintained over time. labels: #Adult#Education, Medical, Continuing#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Personnel, Hospital#Respiration, Artificial#Togo'
b'Fusarium fujikuroi causes bakanae ("foolish seedling") disease of rice which is characterized by hyper-elongation of seedlings resulting from production of gibberellic acids (GAs) by the fungus. This plant pathogen is also known for production of harmful mycotoxins, such as fusarins, fusaric acid, apicidin F and beauvericin. Recently, we generated the first de novo genome sequence of F. fujikuroi strain IMI 58289 combined with extensive transcriptional, epigenetic, proteomic and chemical product analyses. GA production was shown to provide a selective advantage during infection of the preferred host plant rice. Here, we provide genome sequences of eight additional F. fujikuroi isolates from distant geographic regions. The isolates differ in the size of chromosomes, most likely due to variability of subtelomeric regions, the type of asexual spores (microconidia and/or macroconidia), and the number and expression of secondary metabolite gene clusters. Whilst most of the isolates caused the typical bakanae symptoms, one isolate, B14, caused stunting and early withering of infected seedlings. In contrast to the other isolates, B14 produced no GAs but high amounts of fumonisins during infection on rice. Furthermore, it differed from the other isolates by the presence of three additional polyketide synthase (PKS) genes (PKS40, PKS43, PKS51) and the absence of the F. fujikuroi-specific apicidin F (NRPS31) gene cluster. Analysis of additional field isolates confirmed the strong correlation between the pathotype (bakanae or stunting/withering), and the ability to produce either GAs or fumonisins. Deletion of the fumonisin and fusaric acid-specific PKS genes in B14 reduced the stunting/withering symptoms, whereas deletion of the PKS51 gene resulted in elevated symptom development. Phylogenetic analyses revealed two subclades of F. fujikuroi strains according to their pathotype and secondary metabolite profiles. labels: #Fungal Proteins#Fusariosis#Fusarium#Genes, Fungal#Oryza#Phylogeny#Plant Diseases#Virulence'
b'Alpha herpesvirus genomes encode the capacity to establish quiescent infections (i.e. latency) in the peripheral nervous system for the life of their hosts. Multiple times during latency, viral genomes can reactivate to start a productive infection, enabling spread of progeny virions to other hosts. Replication of alpha herpesviruses is well studied in cultured cells and many aspects of productive replication have been identified. However, many questions remain concerning how a productive or a quiescent infection is established. While infections in vivo often result in latency, infections of dissociated neuronal cultures in vitro result in a productive infection unless lytic viral replication is suppressed by DNA polymerase inhibitors or interferon. Using primary peripheral nervous system neurons cultured in modified Campenot tri-chambers, we previously reported that reactivateable, quiescent infections by pseudorabies virus (PRV) can be established in the absence of any inhibitor. Such infections were established in cell bodies only when physically isolated axons were infected at a very low multiplicity of infection (MOI). In this report, we developed a complementation assay in compartmented neuronal cultures to investigate host and viral factors in cell bodies that prevent establishment of quiescent infection and promote productive replication of axonally delivered genomes (i.e. escape from silencing). Stimulating protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathways in isolated cell bodies, or superinfecting cell bodies with either UV-inactivated PRV or viral light particles (LP) promoted escape from genome silencing and prevented establishment of quiescent infection but with different molecular mechanisms. Activation of PKA in cell bodies triggers a slow escape from silencing in a cJun N-terminal kinase (JNK) dependent manner. However, escape from silencing is induced rapidly by infection with UVPRV or LP in a PKA- and JNK-independent manner. We suggest that viral tegument proteins delivered to cell bodies engage multiple signaling pathways that block silencing of viral genomes delivered by low MOI axonal infection. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Gene Expression Regulation, Viral#Gene Silencing#Genome, Viral#Herpesvirus 1, Human#Herpesvirus 1, Suid#Neurons#Swine#Viral Proteins#Virus Latency#Virus Replication'
b'This study compared the effects of two levels of performance stabilization on the adaptation to unpredictable perturbations in an isometric control force task with the goal of controlling 40% of the maximum force. The experiment consisted of pre-exposure and exposure phases. In the pre-exposure two levels of performance stabilization were manipulated: a stabilization group (SG) performed three trials in a row while maintaining 40% of the maximum force for three seconds and an absolute error less than or equal to 5% (i.e., the criteria of performance), and a superstabilization group (SSG) performed six blocks of the same criteria. During the exposure phase, the task was the same as that in the pre-exposure phase; however, it was inserted 9 trials of perturbations when the task goal changed to 60% of the maximum force. We measured the %RMSE, RMS from the biceps and triceps brachii and co-contraction. In the pre-exposure phase, both groups showed similar performance and muscle activity. When exposed to the perturbations, SSG performance more quickly returned to the previous level of accuracy, showed lower muscle activation and demonstrated a greater muscle co-contraction than did SG. The results give support to the adaptive process model on motor learning. labels: #Adult#Electromyography#Humans#Isometric Contraction#Male#Motor Skills#Muscle, Skeletal#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Intramuscular fat (IMF) is known to enhance beef palatability and can be markedly increased by castration. However, there is little understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying the IMF deposition after castration of beef cattle. We hypothesize that genetic regulators function differently in IMF from bulls and steers. Therefore, after detecting serum testosterone and lipid parameter, as well as the contents of IMF at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, we have investigated differentially expressed (DE) microRNAs (miRNAs) and mRNAs in IMF of bulls and steers at 24 months of age in Qinchuan cattle using next-generation sequencing, and then explored the possible biopathways regulating IMF deposition. Serum testosterone levels were significantly decreased in steers, whereas IMF content, serum total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglycerides (TGs) were markedly increased in steers. Comparing the results of steers and bulls, 580 upregulated genes and 1,120 downregulated genes in IMF tissues were identified as DE genes correlated with IMF deposition. The upregulated genes were mainly associated with lipid metabolism, lipogenesis and fatty acid transportation signalling pathways, and the downregulated genes were correlated with immune response and intracellular signal transduction. Concurrently, the DE miRNAs-important players in adipose tissue accumulation induced by castration-were also examined in IMF tissues; 52 DE miRNAs were identified. The expression profiles of selected genes and miRNAs were also confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) assays. Using integrated analysis, we constructed the microRNA-target regulatory network which was supported by target validation using the dual luciferase reporter system. Moreover, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software was used to construct a molecular interaction network that could be involved in regulating IMF after castration. The detected molecular network is closely associated with lipid metabolism and adipocyte differentiation, which is supported by functional identification results of bta-let-7i on bovine preadipocytes. These results provided valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of the IMF phenotype differences between steers and bulls. labels: #Adipose Tissue#Animals#Cattle#China#Cholesterol#Male#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#RNA, Messenger#Testosterone#Transcriptome#Triglycerides'
b'The influence of thrombosis on the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after liver transplantation (LT) and the role of the commonest inherited thrombophilia abnormalities factor V Leiden and prothrombin G20210A in the development of thrombosis are unknown. We investigated a cohort of patients who underwent LT for HCC with the aim to estimate the incidence rate (IR) of thrombosis, its influence on mortality and re-transplantation rates and, in the frame of a nested case-control study, the role of thrombophilia in donors and recipients for the development of thrombosis. Four-hundred and thirty patients underwent LT and were followed for a median of 7.2 years. Twenty-six recipients (6%) developed thrombosis (IR 1.06 [95%CI: 0.71-1.53] per 100 pts-yr). Mortality rate after LT was 3.95 (95%CI: 3.22-4.79) per 100 pts-yr and was not influenced by thrombosis. Re-transplantation was planned for 33 patients and was more common in patients with thrombosis than in those without (HR 2.50 [95%CI: 0.87-7.17]). The risk of thrombosis was 4 times higher in recipients with thrombophilia than in those without (OR 4.23 [95%CI: 0.99-18.04]) and 6 times higher when the analysis was restricted to venous thrombosis (OR 6.26 [95%CI: 1.19-32.85]). The presence of inherited thrombophilia in the donors did not increase the risk of thrombosis of the recipient. In conclusion, thrombosis is a complication of 6% of patients transplanted for HCC and increases the risk of re-transplantation but not of mortality. The risk of thrombosis, particularly venous, is increased in the presence of thrombophilia abnormalities in the recipients. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Survival Rate#Thrombophilia#Thrombosis'
b'Pathogenic or non-pathogenic small (17 to 30 nt) and long (>200 nt) non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) have been implicated in the regulation of gene expression at transcriptional, post-transcriptional and epigenetic level by interacting with host proteins. However, lack of suitable experimental system precludes the identification and evaluation of the functional significance of host proteins interacting with ncRNAs. In this study, we present a first report on the application of riboproteomics to identify host proteins interacting with small, highly pathogenic, noncoding satellite RNA (sat-RNA) associated with Cucumber mosaic virus, the helper virus (HV). RNA affinity beads containing sat-RNA transcripts of (+) or (-)-sense covalently coupled to cyanogen bromide activated sepharose beads were incubated with total protein extracts from either healthy or HV-infected Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. RNA-protein complexes bound to the beads were eluted and subjected to MudPIT analysis. Bioinformatics programs PANTHER classification and WoLF-PSORT were used to further classify the identified host proteins in each case based on their functionality and subcellular distribution. Finally, we observed that the host protein network interacting with plus and minus-strand transcripts of sat-RNA, in the presence or absence of HV is distinct, and the global interactome of host proteins interacting with satRNA in either of the orientations is very different. labels: #Cucumovirus#Helper Viruses#Plant Proteins#Proteomics#RNA, Untranslated#RNA, Viral#Tobacco'
b"5'-Phosphodiesterase (5'-PDE) catalyzes the hydrolysis of ribonucleic acid to obtain a mixture of ribonucleotides, such as 5'-guanosine monophosphate and 5'-adenosine monophosphate. In this study, a 5'-PDE was newly isolated and purified from Aspergillus fumigatus. Following purification, this enzyme exhibited a specific activity of 1036.76 U/mg protein, a molecular weight of 9.5 kDa, and an optimal temperature and pH for enzyme activity of 60\xc2\xb0C and 5.0, respectively. However, its activity was partially inhibited by Fe3+, Cu2+, and Zn2+, but slightly improved by the presence of K+ and Na+. Additionally, chemical-modification experiments were also applied to investigate the structural information of 5'-PDE, in which the residues containing carboxyl and imidazole groups were essential for enzyme activity based on their localization in the 5'-PDE active site. Furthermore, purified 5'-PDE could specifically catalyze the synthesis of ribonucleotides with a Vmax 0.71 mmol/mg\xc2\xb7min and a KM of 13.60 mg/mL. labels: #Aspergillus fumigatus#Catalysis#Hydrolysis#Molecular Weight#Phosphoric Diester Hydrolases#Protein Conformation"
b'Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is the oldest model object of plant genetics and one of the most agriculturally important legumes in the world. Since the pea genome has not been sequenced yet, identification of genes responsible for mutant phenotypes or desirable agricultural traits is usually performed via genetic mapping followed by candidate gene search. Such mapping is best carried out using gene-based molecular markers, as it opens the possibility for exploiting genome synteny between pea and its close relative Medicago truncatula Gaertn., possessing sequenced and annotated genome. In the last 5 years, a large number of pea gene-based molecular markers have been designed and mapped owing to the rapid evolution of "next-generation sequencing" technologies. However, the access to the complete set of markers designed worldwide is limited because the data are not uniformed and therefore hard to use. The Pea Marker Database was designed to combine the information about pea markers in a form of user-friendly and practical online tool. Version 1 (PMD1) comprises information about 2484 genic markers, including their locations in linkage groups, the sequences of corresponding pea transcripts and the names of related genes in M. truncatula. Version 2 (PMD2) is an updated version comprising 15944 pea markers in the same format with several advanced features. To test the performance of the PMD, fine mapping of pea symbiotic genes Sym13 and Sym27 in linkage groups VII and V, respectively, was carried out. The results of mapping allowed us to propose the Sen1 gene (a homologue of SEN1 gene of Lotus japonicus (Regel) K. Larsen) as the best candidate gene for Sym13, and to narrow the list of possible candidate genes for Sym27 to ten, thus proving PMD to be useful for pea gene mapping and cloning. All information contained in PMD1 and PMD2 is available at www.peamarker.arriam.ru. labels: #Databases, Genetic#Genetic Linkage#Genetic Markers#Genome, Plant#Internet#Loteae#Medicago truncatula#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Peas#Software'
b"AIM: To investigate how quality and patient safety domains are being taught in the pre-registration curricula of health profession education programmes in New Zealand.METHODS: All tertiary institutions providing training for medicine, nursing, midwifery, dentistry, pharmacy, physiotherapy, dietetics and 11 other allied health professions in New Zealand were contacted and a person with relevant curriculum knowledge was invited to participate. Interviews were conducted using a semi-structured interview guide to explore nine quality and safety domains; improvement science, patient safety, quality and safety culture, evidence-based practice, patient-centred care, teamwork and communication, leadership for change, systems thinking and use of information technology (IT). Transcribed data were extracted and categorised by discipline and domain. Two researchers independently identified and categorised themes within each domain, using a general inductive approach.RESULTS: Forty-nine institutions were contacted and 43 (88%) people were interviewed. The inclusion and extent of quality and safety teaching was variable. Evidence-based practice, patient-centred care and teamwork and communication were the strongest domains and well embedded in programmes, while leadership, systems thinking and the role of IT were less explicitly included. Except for two institutions, improvement science was absent from pre-registration curricula. Patient safety teaching was focused mainly around incident reporting, and to a lesser extent learning from adverse events. Although a 'no blame' culture was articulated as important, the theme of individual accountability was still apparent. While participants agreed that all domains were important, the main barriers to incorporating improvement science and patient safety concepts into existing programmes included an 'already stretched curriculum' and having faculty with limited expertise in these areas.CONCLUSIONS: Although the building blocks for improving the quality and safety of healthcare are present, this national study of multiple health professional pre-registration education programmes has identified teaching gaps in patient safety and improvement science methods and tools. Failure to address these gaps will compromise the ability of new graduates to successfully implement and sustain improvements. labels: #Communication#Curriculum#Evidence-Based Practice#Health Personnel#Humans#Leadership#Medical Informatics#New Zealand#Organizational Culture#Patient Care Team#Patient Safety#Patient-Centered Care#Qualitative Research#Quality Improvement#Systems Analysis"
b'AIM: To determine the outcome of patients waitlisted for hip and knee replacement surgery who were returned to GP due to resource constraints.METHODS: Prospectively gathered data of all patients returned to GP was analysed, including demographics, clinical prioritisation scores and patient-reported scores. Subsequent outcome was collected from departmental records and the National Joint Registry.RESULTS: Between November 2013 and December 2015, 374 patients were returned to GP care. At minimum 12-month follow-up, 215 (57.5%) had undergone or had certainty for surgery, 36 patients (9.6%) had been re-referred and again declined surgery and 123 (32.9%) remained in GP care. The factors influencing the likelihood of a patient subsequently qualifying for surgery were need for hip rather than knee replacement, time from initial FSA and initial NZOA score. The mean waiting time for those patients who underwent publicly-funded surgery was 14.7 months.CONCLUSION: Returning patients to GP delays treatment rather than reducing the need for surgery. This delay results in waste, added costs to the patient, healthcare system and society, and may reduce the benefit of surgery. There needs to be a significant increase in capacity to meet this demand. labels: #Aged#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee#Female#General Practice#Humans#Male#New Zealand#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Public Sector#Referral and Consultation#Waiting Lists'
b'AIMS: New Zealand follows the guideline that only patients with projected five-year survival of 80% are listed for deceased donor kidney transplantation. An algorithm derived from US data estimates survival after transplantation, however, this may not be as applicable to the New Zealand population. We review use of the US derived algorithm in New Zealand. We assessed accuracy of scores calculated by referring units and audited whether the system is applied in New Zealand.METHODS: Data on 422 patients assessed for transplantation was entered into the algorithm to calculate a projected survival score. Scores were generated by an independent investigator and compared with those calculated by local units. Scores and demographics of listed and not-listed patients were also compared.RESULTS: Three hundred and twenty-five of 420 (77%) patients assessed were accepted onto the New Zealand transplant list. Mean estimated five-year survival in listed patients was 89.4% compared to 79.8% in those not accepted (p<0.0001). Listed patients were younger and less likely to have coronary artery disease (CAD). There was no significant difference in scores calculated by the independent assessor and referring centres (p=0.185).CONCLUSION: The algorithm is universally and accurately used. Future studies are required to determine the validity of the system in New Zealand patients. labels: #Algorithms#Cadaver#Eligibility Determination#Female#Humans#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Medical Audit#Middle Aged#New Zealand#Risk Assessment#Tissue Donors'
b'AIMS: New Zealand has one of the highest rates of breast cancer incidence in the world. We investigated the gene expression profiles of breast tumours from New Zealand patients, compared them to gene expression profiles of international breast cancer cohorts and identified any associations between altered gene expression and the clinicopathological features of the tumours.METHODS: Affymetrix microarrays were used to measure the gene expression profiles of 106 breast tumours from New Zealand patients. Gene expression data from six international breast cancer cohorts were collated, and all the gene expression data were analysed using standard bioinformatic and statistical tools.RESULTS: Gene expression profiles associated with tumour ER and ERBB2 status, molecular subtype and selected gene expression signatures within the New Zealand cohort were consistent with those found in international cohorts. Significant differences in clinicopathological features such as tumour grade, tumour size and lymph node status were also observed between the New Zealand and international cohorts.CONCLUSIONS: Gene expression profiles, which are a sensitive indicator of tumour biology, showed no clear difference between breast tumours from New Zealand patients and those from non-New Zealand patients. This suggests that other factors may contribute to the high and increasing breast cancer incidence in New Zealand compared to international populations. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Breast Neoplasms#Female#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Incidence#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#New Zealand#RNA, Messenger#Receptors, Estrogen#Tissue Array Analysis'
b'AIMS: To determine whether or not cardiomegaly identified on chest radiograph (CXR) is indicative of true cardiomegaly as determined using echocardiography (echo) as the gold standard tool, and therefore whether or not cardiomegaly on CXR should be investigated further.METHODS: CXR and echocardiogram reports were reviewed for the presence of cardiomegaly in a population following non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). Data was evaluated to determine whether cardiomegaly reported on CXR did indeed represent true cardiomegaly. Exploratory analysis was undertaken to determine whether or not Body Surface Area (BSA) was a significant explanatory variable.RESULTS: Data was collected for 244 patients. Thirty-nine were reported to have cardiomegaly on CXR, 22 of those also had cardiomegaly on echo, giving a true positive rate of 56% and a false positive rate of 44%. Fifty-five were reported to have cardiomegaly on echo, of which 33 (60%) did not have cardiomegaly identified on CXR. Sensitivity of CXR to identify cardiomegaly was 40% and specificity was 91% with a positive predictive value of 56% and negative predictive value of 84%. BSA does not appear to be a significant explanatory variable for the discrepancy between the CXR and echo estimates of cardiomegaly.CONCLUSIONS: In patients following an NSTEMI, the true positive rate of cardiomegaly identified on CXR is not too dissimilar to the false positive rate, thereby suggesting that reporting "cardiomegaly" based on CXR findings is inaccurate and rather reporting should simply focus on the cardiothoracic ratio and defining this as an enlarged cardiac silhouette rather than true cardiomegaly. In clinical practice the data indicates that the number needed to investigate to identify true cardiomegaly on echo is only two, thereby concluding that all patients post-NSTEMI with cardiomegaly on CXR should go on to have an echo, consistent with current national guidelines. As the study population were all post-MI, further study is necessary to evaluate whether this association holds true in a wider population. labels: #Aged#Cardiomegaly#Cross-Sectional Studies#Echocardiography#Female#Humans#Male#Non-ST Elevated Myocardial Infarction#Radiography, Thoracic'
b'Demand for health data for secondary research is increasing, both in New Zealand and worldwide. The New Zealand government has established a large research database, the Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI), which facilitates research, and an independent ministerial advisory group, the Data Futures Partnership (DFP), to engage with citizens, the private sector and non-government organisations (NGOs) to facilitate trusted data use and strengthen the data ecosystem in New Zealand. We commend these steps but argue that key strategies for effective health-data governance remain absent in New Zealand. In particular, we argue in favour of the establishment of: (1) a specialist Health and Disability Ethics Committee (HDEC) to review applications for secondary-use data research; (2) a public registry of approved secondary-use research projects (similar to a clinical trials registry); and (3) detailed guidelines for the review and approval of secondary-use data research. We present an ethical framework based on the values of public interest, trust and transparency to justify these innovations. labels: #Biomedical Research#Datasets as Topic#Ethics Committees#Guidelines as Topic#Humans#New Zealand#Registries'
b'Background: Nontraumatic knee pain (NTKP) is highly prevalent in adults 65 years of age and older. Evidence-based guidelines recommend early use of rehabilitation; however, there is limited information comparing differences in health care utilization when rehabilitation is included in the management of NTKP.Objectives: To describe the overall health care utilization associated with the management of NTKP; estimate the proportion of people who receive outpatient rehabilitation services; and evaluate the timing of outpatient rehabilitation and its association with other health care utilization.Design: Rretrospective cohort study was conducted using a random 10% sample of 2009-2010 Medicare claims. The sample included 52,504 beneficiaries presenting within the ambulatory setting for management of NTKP.Methods: Exposure to outpatient rehabilitative services following the NTKP index ambulatory visit was defined as 1) no rehabilitation; 2) early rehabilitation (1-15 days); 3) intermediate rehabilitation (16-120 days); and 4) late rehabilitation (>120 days). Logistic regression models were fit to analyze the association of rehabilitation timing with narcotic analgesic use, utilization of nonsurgical invasive procedure, and knee surgery during a 12-month follow-up period.Results: Only 11.1% of beneficiaries were exposed to outpatient rehabilitation services. The likelihood of using narcotics, nonsurgical invasive procedures, or surgery was significantly less (adjusted odds ratios; 0.67, 0.50, 0.58, respectively) for those who received early rehabilitation when compared to no rehabilitation. The exposure-outcome relationships were reversed in the intermediate and late rehabilitation cohorts.Limitations: This was an observational study, and residual confounding could affect the observed relationships. Therefore, definitive conclusions regarding the causal effect of rehabilitation exposure and reduced utilization of more aggressive interventions cannot be determined at this time.Conclusions: Early referral for outpatient rehabilitation may reduce the utilization of health services that carry greater risks or costs in those with NTKP. labels: #Aged#Ambulatory Care#Female#Humans#Knee Injuries#Male#Medicare#Pain#Retrospective Studies#United States'
b'Sleep disturbance is a common problem following concussion. A retrospective chart review was conducted at a regional concussion clinic on patients 13 to 18 years of age between 2005 and 2011. Statistical analysis evaluated sleep disturbance and duration of concussion, as well as the use and effectiveness of melatonin. A total of 417 patients met inclusion criteria. One hundred twenty-three (34%) reported disturbance in sleep. There was no difference in sleep disturbance based on age, gender, or past number of concussions. Sleep disturbance was associated with a 3- to 4-fold increase in recovery time. Non-sport-related concussions were more likely to be associated with sleep disturbance compared to sport-related concussions (45% vs 29%, P = .01). Melatonin improved sleep disturbance in 67% of the patients. Evaluating sleep disorders following concussion is an important part of the assessment. These findings will help clinicians provide anticipatory guidance and treatment for adolescents recovering from concussion. labels: #Adolescent#Brain Concussion#Central Nervous System Depressants#Female#Humans#Male#Melatonin#Recovery of Function#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sleep Wake Disorders#Time#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Hypoparathyroidism, sensorineural hearing loss, and renal disease (HDR) syndrome, also known as Barakat syndrome, is a rare genetic disorder with high phenotypic heterogeneity caused by haploinsufficiency of the GATA3 gene on chromosome 10p14-p15. For these reasons, the diagnosis of HDR syndrome is challenging and requires a high index of suspicion as well as genetic analysis.CASE PRESENTATION: A 14-month-old boy, with sensorineural hearing loss in both ears, showed typical radiological features of X-linked stapes gusher on preoperative temporal bone computed tomography (CT) for cochlear implantations. Then after his discharge from hospital, he suffered a hypocalcemic seizure and we discovered a renal cyst during investigation of hypocalcemia. He was finally diagnosed with HDR syndrome by clinical findings, which were confirmed by molecular genetic testing. Direct sequencing of the GATA3 gene showed a heterozygous 2-bp deletion (c.1201_1202delAT), which is predicted to cause a frameshift of the reading frame (p.Met401Valfs*106).CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first case of HDR syndrome with a novel de novo variant mimicking a congenital X-linked stapes gusher syndrome. Novel mutations and the diversity of clinical manifestations expand the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of HDR syndrome. Diagnosis of HDR syndrome is still challenging, but clinicians should consider it in their differential diagnosis for children with a wide range of clinical manifestations including hypocalcemia induced seizures and deafness. We hope that this case will contribute to further understanding and studies of HDR-associated GATA3 mutations. labels: #Chromosomes, Human, Pair 10#Cochlear Implantation#Diagnosis, Differential#Frameshift Mutation#GATA3 Transcription Factor#Gene Expression#Genetic Diseases, X-Linked#Haploinsufficiency#Hearing Loss, Conductive#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Heterozygote#Humans#Hypoparathyroidism#Infant#Male#Nephrosis#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Subjects undergoing coronary stenting with complex lesion anatomy may experience different risks and benefits with prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy.OBJECTIVES: The authors assessed the effect of 30\xc2\xa0months versus 12\xc2\xa0months of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) based on the presence or absence of anatomically-complex target lesions.METHODS: In the DAPT Study, combined myocardial infarction (MI) or stent thrombosis and moderate/severe bleeding were assessed in enrolled (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa025,416) and randomized (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa011,554) subjects. Complex lesions had any of the following characteristics: unprotected left main,>2 lesions/vessel, length\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa530\xc2\xa0mm, bifurcation with side branch\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa52.5\xc2\xa0mm, vein bypass graft, or thrombus-containing lesion. Events were evaluated according to increasing number of complexity characteristics and compared according to DAPT score.RESULTS: Enrolled subjects with more complex target lesions had higher rates of MI or stent thrombosis in the first 12\xc2\xa0months after PCI (3.9% vs. 2.4%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001). Among those who were event-free at 12\xc2\xa0months, rates of MI or stent thrombosis between 12 and 30\xc2\xa0months were similar between those with versus without complex anatomy (3.5% vs. 2.9%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.07). Reduction of MI or stent thrombosis with continued thienopyridine beyond 12\xc2\xa0months versus placebo was similar for subjects with (2.5% vs. 4.5%; hazard ratio: 0.55; 95% confidence interval: 0.38 to 0.79; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001) and without (2.0% vs. 3.8%; hazard ratio: 0.52; 95% confidence interval: 0.39 to 0.69; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) anatomic complexity (pinteraction\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.81), as was increase in moderate/severe bleeding (pinteraction\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.44). Among subjects with anatomic complexity, those with DAPT scores\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa52 randomized to continued thienopyridine had greater reductions in MI or stent thrombosis (3.0% vs. 6.1%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) compared with subjects with scores\xc2\xa0<2 (1.7% vs. 2.3%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.42; p value comparing risk differences\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03).CONCLUSIONS: Complex target-lesion anatomy is associated with increased ischemic events, particularly within the first year after PCI. Among those without events in the first 12\xc2\xa0months, the benefits of extending DAPT were similar in subjects with and without complex lesions. A high DAPT score identified those experiencing the most benefit from extended treatment among patients with and without complex anatomy. (The Dual Antiplatelet Therapy Study [DAPT Study]; NCT00977938). labels: #Aged#Aspirin#Coronary Artery Disease#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug-Eluting Stents#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hemorrhage#Humans#Internationality#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Percutaneous Coronary Intervention#Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors#Pyridines#Ticlopidine#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: There is a paucity of data on the association between high-sensitivity cardiac troponin (hs-cTn) levels and outcomes in patients with chest pain but no myocardial infarction (MI), or any other condition that may lead to acutely elevated troponin levels.OBJECTIVES: The authors hypothesized that any detectable high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (hs-cTnT) level is associated with adverse outcomes.METHODS: All patients (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa022,589)>25 years of age with chest pain and hs-cTnT analyzed concurrently in the\xc2\xa0emergency department of Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden from 2011 to 2014 were eligible for inclusion. After excluding all patients with acute conditions that may have affected hs-cTnT, or MI associated with the\xc2\xa0visit, or insufficient information to determine whether troponin levels were stable, Cox regression was used to estimate risks for all-cause, cardiovascular, and noncardiovascular mortality, MI, and heart failure at different levels of troponins.RESULTS: A total of 19,460 patients with a mean age of 54 \xc2\xb1 17 years were included. During a mean follow-up of 3.3\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01.2 years, 1,349 (6.9%) patients died. Adjusted hazard ratios (with 95% confidence intervals) for all-cause mortality were 2.00 (1.66 to 2.42), 2.92 (2.38 to 3.59), 4.07 (3.28 to 5.05), 6.77 (5.22 to 8.78), and 9.68 (7.18 to 13.00) in patients\xc2\xa0with hs-cTnT levels of 5 to 9, 10 to 14, 15 to 29, 30 to 49, and\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa550\xc2\xa0ng/l, respectively, compared with patients with hs-cTnT levels\xc2\xa0<5\xc2\xa0ng/l. There was a strong and graded association between all detectable levels of hs-cTnT and risk\xc2\xa0for MI, heart failure, and cardiovascular and noncardiovascular mortality.CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with chest pain and stable troponin levels, any detectable level of hs-cTnT is associated with an increased risk of death and cardiovascular outcomes and should merit further attention. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Biomarkers#Cardiovascular Diseases#Chest Pain#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Sweden#Treatment Outcome#Troponin T#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Before the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), cardiac mortality and morbidity were common in HIV-infected children.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to identify long-term cardiovascular effects of HAART in HIV-infected children.METHODS: The CHAART-2 (HAART-Associated Cardiotoxicity in HIV-Infected Children) study prospectively compared 148 echocardiograms from 74 HAART-exposed children to 860 echocardiograms from 140 HAART-unexposed but HIV-infected children from the Pulmonary and Cardiac Complications of Vertically Transmitted HIV Infection (P2C2HIV) study. Both studies used similar protocol, centralized echocardiographic interpretation, and measures expressed as z-scores referenced to healthy controls. Associations between HAART exposure and echocardiographic measures were\xc2\xa0evaluated using generalized estimating equations.RESULTS: Comparing the HAART-exposed and HAART-unexposed groups, any HAART exposure was positively associated with left ventricular (LV) fractional shortening (z-score for difference\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.07; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.02) and HAART exposure duration (z-score difference per year\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.17; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.003. LV mass was negatively associated with any HAART exposure\xc2\xa0(z-score difference =\xc2\xa0-0.64; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.01) as was septal thickness (z-score difference =\xc2\xa0-0.93; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). Duration of HAART exposure was negatively associated with LV end-systolic dimension and heart rate (z-score difference per year=\xc2\xa0-0.11; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.05; and z-score difference per year =\xc2\xa0-0.10; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.002, respectively). During 11 years of follow-up, in the HAART-exposed group, LV mass and LV end-diastolic septal thickness were lower whereas LV contractility and LV\xc2\xa0fractional shortening were higher when compared to the HAART-unexposed group.CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac structure and function were better in perinatally HIV-infected children exposed to HAART than\xc2\xa0in those of similar children from the pre-HAART era but did decline over time. Evidence-based strategies for cardiovascular monitoring are needed to inform treatment decisions to improve long-term cardiovascular health. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Antiretroviral Therapy, Highly Active#Cardiotoxins#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#HIV Infections#Humans#Hypertrophy, Left Ventricular#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Perinatal Care#Pregnancy#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Ventricular Dysfunction, Left'
b'BACKGROUND: Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has long served as the standard of care for short-term mechanical circulatory support in pediatrics. It is unknown whether newer-generation temporary circulatory support (TCS) devices afford children a meaningful survival advantage over ECMO.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to determine whether bridge-to-heart transplant survival with a TCS device is superior to ECMO after adjusting for patient differences.METHODS: All children\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa421 years of age listed for heart transplant from 2011 to 2015 who received a TCS device or\xc2\xa0ECMO as a bridge to transplant were identified using Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network data. Children supported with a TCS device were compared with a propensity score (PS)-matched cohort of children\xc2\xa0supported with ECMO as a bridge to transplant. The primary endpoint was Kaplan-Meier survival to transplant.RESULTS: The number of TCS devices implanted in children increased from\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa43 per year before 2011 to 50 in 2015. Overall, 93 patients implanted with TCS devices were included for analysis (59% left ventricular assist devices, 23% right ventricular assist devices, 18% biventricular assist devices). The most commonly used device was the CentriMag-PediMag system (65%), followed by TandemHeart (18%), Rotaflow (6%), and Impella (5%). Among 164 PS-matched patients, support duration was longer for the TCS cohort (median 19\xc2\xa0days vs. 6\xc2\xa0days; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), and was longest for the CentriMag-PediMag (24\xc2\xa0days vs. 6\xc2\xa0days; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) with 27% supported for>60\xc2\xa0days. Compared with the ECMO cohort, the PS-matched TCS cohort had longer survival to transplant (hazard ratio: 0.49; 95% confidence interval: 0.30 to 0.79) and longer overall survival (hazard ratio: 0.61; 95% confidence interval: 0.39 to 0.96), with 90-day mortality before transplant that was modestly reduced (from 45% with\xc2\xa0ECMO to 39% with TCS).CONCLUSIONS: The use of TCS devices in children as a bridge to transplant has risen rapidly in recent years, led\xc2\xa0by\xc2\xa0the\xc2\xa0growth of magnetically levitated centrifugal flow pumps. Compared with conventional ECMO, TCS durations\xc2\xa0are\xc2\xa0longer, and more importantly, patient survival is superior. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation#Female#Heart Transplantation#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors#United States#Waiting Lists'
b'BACKGROUND: Improved understanding of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) due to titin truncation (TTNtv) may help guide patient stratification.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to establish relationships among TTNtv genotype, cardiac phenotype, and outcomes in DCM.METHODS: In this prospective, observational cohort study, DCM patients underwent clinical evaluation, late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance, TTN sequencing, and adjudicated follow-up blinded to genotype for the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, and major arrhythmic and major heart failure events.RESULTS: Of 716 subjects recruited (mean age 53.5 \xc2\xb1 14.3 years; 469 men [65.5%]; 577 [80.6%]New York Heart Association function class I/II), 83 (11.6%) had TTNtv. Patients with TTNtv were younger at enrollment (49.0 years vs. 54.1 years; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.002) and had lower indexed left ventricular mass (5.1 g/m2reduction; padjusted\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03) compared with patients without TTNtv. There was no difference in biventricular ejection fraction between TTNtv+/-groups. Overall, 78 of 604 patients (12.9%) met the primary endpoint (median follow-up 3.9 years; interquartile range: 2.0 to 5.8 years), including 9 of 71 patients with TTNtv (12.7%) and 69 of 533 (12.9%) without. There was no difference in the composite primary outcome of cardiovascular death, heart failure, or arrhythmic events, for patients with or without TTNtv (hazard\xc2\xa0ratio adjusted for primary endpoint: 0.92 [95% confidence interval: 0.45 to 1.87]; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.82).CONCLUSIONS: In this large, prospective, genotype-phenotype study of ambulatory DCM patients, we show that prognostic factors for all-cause DCM also predict outcome in TTNtv DCM, and that TTNtv DCM does not appear to be associated with worse medium-term prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiomyopathy, Dilated#Child#Cohort Studies#Connectin#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Treatments for high-risk essential thrombocythemia (ET) address thrombocytosis, disease-related symptoms, as well as risks of thrombosis, hemorrhage, transformation to myelofibrosis, and leukemia. Patients resistant/intolerant to hydroxycarbamide (HC) have a poor outlook. MAJIC (ISRCTN61925716) is a randomized phase 2 trial of ruxolitinib (JAK1/2 inhibitor) vs best available therapy (BAT) in ET and polycythemia vera patients resistant or intolerant to HC. Here, findings of MAJIC-ET are reported, where the modified intention-to-treat population included 58 and 52 patients randomized to receive ruxolitinib or BAT, respectively. There was no evidence of improvement in complete response within 1 year reported in 27 (46.6%) patients treated with ruxolitinib vs 23 (44.2%) with BAT (P= .40). At 2 years, rates of thrombosis, hemorrhage, and transformation were not significantly different; however, some disease-related symptoms improved in patients receiving ruxolitinib relative to BAT. Molecular responses were uncommon; there were 2 complete molecular responses (CMR) and 1 partial molecular response inCALR-positive ruxolitinib-treated patients. Transformation to myelofibrosis occurred in 1 CMR patient, presumably because of the emergence of a different clone, raising questions about the relevance of CMR in ET patients. Grade 3 and 4 anemia occurred in 19% and 0% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) in the BAT arm, and grade 3 and 4 thrombocytopenia in 5.2% and 1.7% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) of BAT-treated patients. Rates of discontinuation or treatment switching did not differ between the 2 trial arms. The MAJIC-ET trial suggests that ruxolitinib is not superior to current second-line treatments for ET. This trial was registered at www.isrctn.com as #ISRCTN61925716. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Disease Progression#Drug Resistance#Female#Hemorrhage#Humans#Hydroxyurea#Male#Middle Aged#Pyrazoles#Thrombocythemia, Essential#Treatment Outcome#Withholding Treatment'
b"BACKGROUND: Poor and minority children with injuries concerning for abuse are evaluated and diagnosed for abuse differentially. We hypothesized that 2 steps in the decision-making process would influence evaluation and diagnosis: social intuition from meeting the family and objective social information associated with child abuse risk.METHODS: Between 2009 and 2013, 32 child abuse pediatricians (CAPs) submitted 730 child abuse consultations including original medical evaluations and diagnoses. CAPs evaluated and diagnosed each other's cases. Comparisons of evaluations and diagnoses were made by levels of social understanding available to the CAP: meeting the family (social intuition and information), reading the case (social information), and reading the case without social information. Evaluations were compared with a consensus gold standard by using logistic regression modeling adjusting for child and CAP characteristics. Diagnostic categories were compared by level of social understanding and diagnostic certainty by using contingency tables.RESULTS: CAPs without access to social intuition were approximately twice as likely to perform gold standard evaluations for neurotrauma and long bone fracture compared with CAPs who met families. Diagnostic agreement fell from 73.3% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 70.1%-76.5%) when social information was present to 66.5% (95% CI: 63.1%-70.0%) when social information was restricted. In cases with less certainty, agreement dropped to 51.3% (95% CI: 46.0%-56.7%).CONCLUSIONS: Social intuition and information play a role in the physical child abuse decision-making process, which may contribute to differential diagnosis. Simple interventions including decision tools, check lists, and peer review may structure evaluations to ensure children's equal treatment. labels: #Child#Child Abuse#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Humans#Interpersonal Relations#Intuition#Male#Pediatricians#Physician-Patient Relations#Poverty#Referral and Consultation#Risk Factors"
b"Objective\xc2\xa0To determine physician characteristics associated with exnovation (scaling back on use) and de-adoption (abandoning use) of carotid revascularization.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective longitudinal cohort study.Setting\xc2\xa0Medicare claims linked to the Doximity database provider registry, 2006-13.Participants\xc2\xa09158 physicians who performed carotid revascularization on Medicare patients between 2006 and 2013.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcomes were the number of carotid revascularization procedures for each physician per year at the end of the sample period, and the percentage change in the volume of carotid revascularization procedures.Results\xc2\xa0At baseline (2006-07), 9158 physicians performed carotid revascularization. By 2012-13 the use of revascularization in this cohort had declined by 37.7%, with two thirds attributable to scaling back (exnovation) rather than dropping the procedure entirely (de-adoption). Compared with physicians with fewer than 12 years of experience, those with more than 25 years of experience decreased use by an additional 23.0% (95% confidence interval -36.7% to -9.2%). The lowest rates of decline occurred in physicians specializing in vascular or thoracic surgery, for whom the procedures accounted for a large share of revenue. Physicians with high proportions of patients aged more than 80 years or with asymptomatic carotid stenosis were less likely to reduce their use of carotid revascularization.Conclusion\xc2\xa0Surgeons with more experience and the lowest share in carotid revascularization practice reduced their use of the procedure the most. These practice factors should be considered in quality improvement efforts when the evidence base evolves away from a specific treatment. labels: #Carotid Stenosis#Diffusion of Innovation#Endarterectomy, Carotid#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Medicare#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Retrospective Studies#United States"
b"Objective\xc2\xa0To estimate financial payments from industry to US journal editors.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective observational study.Setting\xc2\xa052 influential (high impact factor for their specialty) US medical journals from 26 specialties and US Open Payments database, 2014.Participants\xc2\xa0713 editors at the associate level and above identified from each journal's online masthead.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0All general payments (eg, personal income) and research related payments from pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers to eligible physicians in 2014. Percentages of editors receiving payments and the magnitude of such payments were compared across journals and by specialty. Journal websites were also reviewed to determine if conflict of interest policies for editors were readily accessible.Results\xc2\xa0Of 713 eligible editors, 361 (50.6%) received some (>$0) general payments in 2014, and 139 (19.5%) received research payments. The median general payment was $11 (\xc2\xa38; \xe2\x82\xac9) (interquartile range $0-2923) and the median research payment was $0 ($0-0). The mean general payment was $28\xe2\x80\x89136 (SD $415\xe2\x80\x89045), and the mean research payment was $37\xe2\x80\x89963 (SD $175\xe2\x80\x89239). The highest median general payments were received by journal editors from endocrinology ($7207, $0-85\xe2\x80\x89816), cardiology ($2664, $0-12\xe2\x80\x89912), gastroenterology ($696, $0-20\xe2\x80\x89002), rheumatology ($515, $0-14\xe2\x80\x89280), and urology ($480, $90-669). For high impact general medicine journals, median payments were $0 ($0-14). A review of the 52 journal websites revealed that editor conflict of interest policies were readily accessible (ie, within five minutes) for 17/52 (32.7%) of journals.Conclusions\xc2\xa0Industry payments to journal editors are common and often large, particularly for certain subspecialties. Journals should consider the potential impact of such payments on public trust in published research. labels: #Biomedical Research#Conflict of Interest#Drug Industry#Editorial Policies#Equipment and Supplies#Humans#Income#Manufacturing Industry#Periodicals as Topic#Retrospective Studies#United States"
b"Helen Roberts of Defra's International Disease Monitoring team sets out the situation regarding equine infectious anaemia in Europe, the threat to the UK and the expectations of disease control measures in light of an outbreak being detected. labels: #Animals#Disease Outbreaks#Equine Infectious Anemia#Europe#Horses#Sentinel Surveillance#United Kingdom"
b'In a review summary on page 450, Pasmans and others discuss the future of keeping reptiles and amphibians as pets. Here,Clifford Warwick and othersdiscuss the animal welfare and public health implications of exotic pet business. labels: #Amphibians#Animal Welfare#Animals#Animals, Exotic#Commerce#Forecasting#Public Health#Reptiles'
b'High-resolution maps of enhancer-promoter interactions in rare primary human T cell subsets and coronary artery smooth muscle cells link variants associated with autoimmune and cardiovascular diseases to target genes. This represents an important step forward for mapping genes involved in complex diseases. labels: #Autoimmune Diseases#B-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Chromatin#Chromatin Immunoprecipitation#Chromosome Mapping#Coronary Artery Disease#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Genome, Human#Genome-Wide Association Study#Histones#Humans#Myocytes, Smooth Muscle#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Quantitative Trait Loci#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer'
b'Human-derived tumor models are becoming popular in the context of personalized medicine, but a new study shows that these models could be less representative of primary tumors than previously thought, particularly when using late passages. labels: #Animals#Clonal Evolution#Clone Cells#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA, Neoplasm#Disease Models, Animal#Heterografts#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Mice#Neoplasms#Precision Medicine#Species Specificity#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'We presented adaptive random network models to describe human behavioral change during epidemics and performed stochastic simulations of SIR (susceptible-infectious-recovered) epidemic models on adaptive random networks. The interplay between infectious disease dynamics and network adaptation dynamics was investigated in regard to the disease transmission and the cumulative number of infection cases. We found that the cumulative case was reduced and associated with an increasing network adaptation probability but was increased with an increasing disease transmission probability. It was found that the topological changes of the adaptive random networks were able to reduce the cumulative number of infections and also to delay the epidemic peak. Our results also suggest the existence of a critical value for the ratio of disease transmission and adaptation probabilities below which the epidemic cannot occur. labels: #Communicable Diseases, Emerging#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Epidemics#Humans#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Prevalence#Stochastic Processes#Time Factors'
b'Purpose: To refine the Minnesota Grading System (MGS) using definitions from the Age-Related Eye Disease Studies (AREDS) into a nine-step grading scale (MGS-9).Methods: A nine-step grading scale descriptive analysis using three key phenotypic features (total drusen area, increased, and decreased pigmentation) of human eyebank eyes that were graded according to definitions from the AREDS criteria in order to harmonize studies of disease progression for research involving human tissue. From 2005 through February 2017, we have analyzed 1159 human eyes, procured from two eyebanks. Each macula was imaged using high-resolution, stereoscopic color fundus photography with both direct- and transillumination. Fundus images were digitally overlaid with a grading template and triangulated for foveal centration.Results: We documented and stratified risk for each globe by applying the AREDS nine-step grading scale to the key clinical features from the MGS-9. We found a good distribution within the MGS categories (1-9) with few level eight globes. Eyes were processed within 12.1 \xc2\xb1 6.3, hours from the time of death through imaging, dissection, and freezing or fixation. Applying the MGS-9 to 331 pairs (662 eyes were simultaneously graded), 84% were within one-grading step and 93% within two steps of the fellow eye. We also document reticular pseudodrusen, basal laminar drusen, and pattern dystrophy.Conclusions: The MGS nine-step grading scale enables researchers using human tissue to refine the risk assessment of donor tissue. This analysis will harmonize results among researchers when grading human tissue using MGS criteria. Most importantly, the MGS-9 links directly to the known risk for progression from the AREDS. labels: #Aftercare#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Diagnostic Techniques, Ophthalmological#Eye Banks#Female#Humans#Macula Lutea#Male#Middle Aged#Minnesota#Reproducibility of Results#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Tissue Donors#Wet Macular Degeneration'
b'Purpose: We determined the effects of a remodeled inner retina on the flicker electroretinograms (ERGs) in a rabbit eye at an advanced stage of inherited retinal degeneration.Methods: Six wild-type (WT) and four rhodopsin P347L transgenic (Tg) rabbits were studied at 18 months of age. Flicker ERGs were elicited by sinusoidal stimuli at frequencies of 3.906 to 50.781 Hz. To block the ON and OFF retinal pathways, 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB), and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3(1H, 4H)-dione (CNQX), respectively, were injected intravitreally. The amplitudes and phases of the fundamental components of the pre- and postdrug ERGs were analyzed. The postsynaptic APB (ON-) and CNQX (OFF-) sensitive components were determined by examining the phases and amplitude vectors.Results: The temporal properties of the Tg rabbits were different from those of the WT rabbits and had unique features; at 3.906 Hz, the amplitude was depressed but it increased by more than 3.5-fold at 15.625 Hz. The reduction of the amplitude at 3.906 Hz in Tg rabbits was caused by a cancelation of the ON and OFF components by a phase difference of 180\xc2\xb0. On the other hand, an increase in the amplitude at 15.625 Hz in Tg rabbits was caused by the summation of the ON and OFF components, which had an approximate 120\xc2\xb0 phase difference.Conclusions: The temporal properties of the flicker ERGs of Tg rabbits were affected markedly by the remodeling of the retinal neurons. Evaluations of the flicker ERGs in RP eyes must be done with careful considerations of the current findings. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Photic Stimulation#Rabbits#Retina#Retinal Neurons#Retinitis Pigmentosa'
b'Purpose: To investigate the relationship between objective ocular torsion and the presence or absence of the trochlear nerve in subjects with unilateral superior oblique palsy (SOP).Methods: A total of 159 subjects with congenital and acquired unilateral SOP were reviewed. Eighty-four subjects who had a normal trochlear nerve (present group) and 75 subjects without a trochlear nerve (absent group) were included. Cyclovertical motility parameters and objective ocular torsion were compared between groups, and factors related to ocular torsion were evaluated.Results: The degree of "net" excyclotorsion in the paretic eye was larger in the absent group compared to the present group (P = 0.002). The proportion of net excyclotorsion in the paretic eye was greater in the absent group (11% vs. 37%), while net incyclotorsion was greater in the present group (41% vs. 23%) (P<0.001). Net excyclotorsion of the paretic eye was associated with absence of the trochlear nerve (P<0.001) and smaller size of the paretic SO (P<0.001). Net incyclotorsion of the paretic eye was related with a normal trochlear nerve (P = 0.005), larger size of the paretic SO (P = 0.002), and greater hypertropia during ipsilateral gaze (P = 0.024).Conclusions: The status of the trochlear nerve, paretic SO size, and hypertropia during ipsilateral gaze which reflects the tensile strength of the ipsilateral superior rectus, significantly contribute to ocular torsion in unilateral SOP. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Child#Child, Preschool#Eye Movements#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Ocular Motility Disorders#Oculomotor Muscles#Retrospective Studies#Trochlear Nerve#Trochlear Nerve Diseases#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the angiogenic properties of corneal derived mesenchymal stromal cells (Co-MSC).Methods: Co-MSCs were extracted from human cadaver, and wild-type (C57BL/6J) and SERPINF1-/- mice corneas. The MSC secretome was collected in a serum-free medium. Human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation and fibrin gel bead assay (FIBA) sprout formation were used to assess the angiogenic properties of Co-MSC secretome. Complete corneal epithelial debridement was used to induce corneal neovascularization in wild-type mice. Co-MSCs embedded in fibrin gel was applied over the debrided cornea to evaluate the angiogenic effects of Co-MSCs in vivo. Immunoprecipitation was used to remove soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFLT-1) and pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF, SERPINF1 gene) from the Co-MSC secretome.Results: Co-MSC secretome significantly inhibited HUVECs tube and sprout formation. Co-MSCs from different donors consistently contained high levels of antiangiogenic factors including sFLT-1 and PEDF; and low levels of the angiogenic factor VEGF-A. In vivo, application of Co-MSCs to mouse corneas after injury prevented the development of corneal neovascularization. Removing PEDF or sFLT-1 from the secretome significantly diminished the antiangiogenic effects of Co-MSCs. Co-MSCs isolated from SERPINF1-/- mice had significantly reduced antiangiogenic effects compared to SERPINF1+/+ (wild-type) Co-MSCs.Conclusions: These results illustrate the direct antiangiogenic properties of Co-MSCs, the importance of sFLT-1 and PEDF, and their potential clinical application for preventing pathologic corneal neovascularization. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Cadaver#Cells, Cultured#Cornea#Corneal Neovascularization#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Eye Proteins#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Nerve Growth Factors#Serpins#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-1'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the effect of acutely elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) on the functional and blood flow responses of the rat retina to flicker stimulation.Methods: Brown Norway (n = 15) rats were dark-adapted before ketamine/xylazine anesthesia. IOP was raised acutely in one eye to \xe2\x88\xbc45 mm Hg with a vascular loop. In 11 rats, white light flicker stimulus (10 Hz, 2 seconds duration, 0.80 log scotopic cd\xc2\xb7s/m2) was applied before and during IOP elevation, and 10 minutes after loop removal. Changes in the total retinal blood flow (TRBF) and retinal function induced by the visual stimulus were measured simultaneously with a combined optical coherence tomography (OCT) + electroretinography (ERG) system. Systemic blood pressure was measured in the remaining four rats frequently from 10 to 90 minutes post anesthesia injection.Results: The systemic blood pressure remained at 99 \xc2\xb1 4 mm Hg throughout the measurements (n = 4). Under normal IOP, the TRBF was 5.6 \xc2\xb1 1.9 \xce\xbcL/min, and the average retinal blood vessel size (BVS) in the vicinity of the optic nerve head (ONH) was 44.1 \xc2\xb1 4.5 \xce\xbcm. During IOP elevation, the TRBF was significantly lower (3.8 \xc2\xb1 1.2 \xce\xbcL/min, P<0.01) and the BVS was significantly smaller (35.1 \xc2\xb1 2.6 \xce\xbcm, P<0.01). Both TRBF and BVS returned to baseline within \xe2\x88\xbc10 minutes from removal of the vascular loop. The flicker-induced TRBF change measured under normal IOP (6.0 \xc2\xb1 3.3%) was reduced significantly to 0.1 \xc2\xb1 0.3% (P<0.01) during IOP elevation, and recovered to 5.9 \xc2\xb1 1.7% within 10 minutes after loop removal. During IOP elevation, the magnitude of the ERG second harmonic component (SHC) decreased to 55% of its baseline value (P<0.01) and remained significantly smaller than baseline (P<0.01).Conclusions: Acute IOP elevation to 45 mm Hg caused suppression of the retinal functional and TRBF response to flicker stimulation. labels: #Acute Disease#Animals#Blood Pressure#Dark Adaptation#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Photic Stimulation#Rats#Rats, Inbred BN#Regional Blood Flow#Retina#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: Alterations in retinal oxygen metabolism and retinal microcirculation are signs of impending diabetic retinopathy (DR). However, if specific retinal regions are primarily affected is so far unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate if retinal oxygen saturation (SO2) and microvascular hemodynamic parameters follow a distinct regional pattern in patients with diabetes but no DR.Methods: Patients with type II diabetes without clinically apparent DR were imaged as follows: SO2 in peripapillary vessels was assessed with dual-wavelength oximetry. Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) scans were acquired with a prototype system using a swept-source laser with an effective 400 kHz A-scan rate and 16\xc2\xb0 field of view. Regional flow indices termed "flux" were calculated for the peripapillary microvasculature. Parafoveal capillary density was evaluated with the commercially available AngioVue OCTA.Results: Twenty-nine eyes of 16 consecutive patients (59 \xc2\xb1 10 years, 6 females) were included in this study. SO2 differed significantly between quadrants (P<0.001), with a decreasing pattern from the upper nasal through the lower nasal, the upper temporal and the lower temporal quadrant in arterioles and venules. In contrast, peripapillary flux followed an increasing trend from nasally to temporally. Peripapillary and parafoveal microvascular hemodynamic parameters demonstrated no significant regional variability as observed for retinal oxygenation.Conclusions: Metabolic imaging identified regional differences in retinal SO2 without an associated topographic variance in microvascular hemodynamics in type II diabetes without DR. Future studies should focus on the mechanisms causing this heterogeneity in metabolic demand. labels: #Capillaries#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Fundus Oculi#Hemodynamics#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Oximetry#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Regional Blood Flow#Retina#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: To identify and quantify the three distinct retinal capillary plexuses and the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in healthy subjects according to age using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) with novel projection artifact removal (PAR) software and improved segmentation.Methods: All eyes in this cross-sectional study underwent OCTA imaging using RTVue XR Avanti with novel PAR AngioVue software. OCTA scans were analyzed and the three main parafoveal retinal capillary plexuses were segmented and vessel density and FAZ area were calculated.Results: A total of 152 normal eyes from 95 subjects (39 males, 56 females, mean age 42 \xc2\xb1 25 years) were included. The mean vessel density was 15.48 \xc2\xb1 2.04 mm-1 in the superficial retinal capillary plexus (SCP), 15.28 \xc2\xb1 1.82 mm-1 in the intermediate retinal capillary plexus (ICP), and 16.33 \xc2\xb1 2.32 mm-1 in the deep retinal capillary plexus (DCP) for 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm OCTA images. Analysis of 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm scans yielded a mean FAZ area of 0.270 \xc2\xb1 0.101 mm2. The average reduction in vessel density per year of age with 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm OCTA scans was 0.04 mm-1 (0.22%) in the SCP, 0.05 mm-1 (0.27%) in the ICP, and 0.06 mm-1 (0.30%) in the DCP. The average increase in FAZ area per year of age was 0.0015 mm2 (0.72%).Conclusions: Novel PAR software may provide improved visualization of all three major parafoveal retinal capillary plexuses including the ICP. Using this technology, SCP, ICP, and DCP vessel density decreased with increasing age while FAZ area increased with age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Capillaries#Child#Child, Preschool#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Follow-Up Studies#Fovea Centralis#Fundus Oculi#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retinal Vessels#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Young Adult'
b'Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an increasingly common cause of chronic liver disease. Till date, liver biopsy remains the gold standard for identification and quantification of the wide histological spectra of NAFLD. Histological scorings are very useful and widely applied for the diagnosis and management in clinical trials and follow-up studies of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). However, in view of scarce published literature, there is a need to evaluate them in large cohort of NAFLD. This study was aimed to evaluate the two histological scoring systems (NAS-CRN, SAF) in the diagnosis of NAFLD and to assess the role of histological characteristics as injury markers in NAFLD. Retrospective histological study of liver biopsies of 1000 patients diagnosed as NAFLD, between 2010 and 2016, was conducted. Histopathologic evaluation and semiquantiative scoring based on NAS-CRN and SAF algorithm and their correlation with serum aminotransferase and fibrosis were performed. Liver biopsies were classified according to the NAS-CRN scoring, as NAS<3 (not NASH) in 72 (7.2%), NAS 3-4 (borderline NASH) in 310 (31%), and NAS \xe2\x89\xa55 (definite NASH) in 618 (61.8%), and SAF classified 117 (11.7%) not NASH and 883 (88.3%) definite NASH. There was excellent concordance for definite NASH and not NASH; however, 88.06% of borderline NASH was classified as NASH by SAF. 76.39% by NAS and 78.63% by SAF algorithm who were diagnosed as not NASH showed the presence of fibrosis; however, higher stages of fibrosis were significantly more prevalent in definite NASH, excluding burnt-out cirrhosis. Serum ALT was significantly associated with increasing stages of fibrosis (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and the three categories (not NASH, borderline NASH, and definite NASH) when classified as with/without fibrosis (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Steatosis of higher grades, more ballooned cells, and more foci of Lobular Inflammation were found in significantly higher proportion of patients with NASH (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001), with higher fibrosis stages (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and higher serum ALT levels (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). NAFLD classifications based on histological scoring NAS-CRN and SAF algorithm are concordant for the category of definite NASH and not NASH, while borderline NASH shows discrepant interpretation. There was highly significant correlation between the NAS and SAF categories with high grades of histological characteristics, with serum ALT and with higher stages of fibrosis. Exclusion of fibrosis is a limitation with both scores. labels: #Adult#Alanine Transaminase#Algorithms#Biomarkers#Biopsy#Female#Humans#Liver#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Microscopy#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index'
b"Prior recommendations still aren't implemented 10 years later. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Civil Defense#Decision Making, Organizational#Disaster Planning#Emergencies#Geriatric Nursing#Humans#Nurse's Role#Nursing Homes#Rescue Work#United States"
b"Nurse-led interventions can prepare a vulnerable population. labels: #Alzheimer Disease#Dementia#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Rural Population#United States#United States Department of Veterans Affairs"
b'Bureaucracy and lack of resources challenge licensing and oversight. labels: #Budgets#Certification#Government Regulation#Humans#Licensure, Nursing#New Jersey#Professional Autonomy#Societies, Nursing#Specialty Boards'
b'New guidelines go into effect in January. labels: #Humans#Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Patient Care Management#Practice Guidelines as Topic#United States'
b'Increases in alcohol abuse by women, older adults, and minorities outpaced the national average. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Alcohol Drinking#Alcohol-Related Disorders#Alcoholism#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Minority Groups#Prevalence#Risk-Taking#Sex Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b'Family caregivers are receiving much-needed support, but is it enough? labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Caregivers#Disabled Persons#Female#Health Services Needs and Demand#Helping Behavior#Home Care Services#Home Nursing#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#United States'
b': In recent years, health care organizations have been moving away from a culture that responds to errors and near misses with "shame and blame" and toward a fair and just culture. Such a culture encourages and rewards people for speaking up about safety-related concerns, thus allowing the information to be used for system improvement. In part 1 of this series, we reported on findings from a study that examined how nursing schools handled student errors and near misses. We found that few nursing schools had a policy or a reporting tool concerning these events; and that when policies did exist, the majority did not reflect the principles of a fair and just culture. This article, part 2 of the series, describes several strategies that nursing schools can use for creating such a culture. labels: #Education, Nursing#Humans#Medical Errors#Near Miss, Healthcare#Nurse\'s Role#Nursing Evaluation Research#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Schools, Nursing#Students, Nursing#United States'
b': This series on palliative care is developed in collaboration with the Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association (HPNA; http://hpna.advancingexpertcare.org). The HPNA aims to guide nurses in preventing and relieving suffering and in giving the best possible care to patients and families, regardless of the stage of disease or the need for other therapies. The HPNA offers education, competence, advocacy, leadership, and research. labels: #Delivery of Health Care#Health Expenditures#Humans#Palliative Care#Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act#Undocumented Immigrants#United States'
b"This article is one in a series on the roles of adjunct clinical faculty and preceptors, who teach nursing students and new graduates to apply knowledge in clinical settings. In this article, the author discusses how nursing instructors influence the ethical development of students in the clinical setting. labels: #Clinical Competence#Codes of Ethics#Education, Nursing, Baccalaureate#Ethics, Nursing#Humans#Mentors#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Qualitative Research#Students, Nursing"
b'According to this study. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Behavior Control#Behavior Therapy#Biofeedback, Psychology#Female#Geriatric Nursing#Humans#Male#Nursing Homes#Toilet Training#Urinary Incontinence'
b'According to this study. labels: #Humans#Models, Nursing#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient-Centered Care#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Specialties, Nursing#United States#Workload'
b'According to this study. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cause of Death#Disease Progression#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Observation#Prostatectomy#Prostatic Neoplasms#Survival Analysis#Watchful Waiting'
b"The first step toward solutions to ethical problems. labels: #Critical Care Nursing#Ethics, Nursing#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Medical Errors#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Care Team#Philosophy, Nursing"
b"Receiving recommended childhood vaccinations on schedule is the best way to prevent the occurrence and spread of vaccine-preventable diseases (1). Vaccination coverage among children aged 19-35 months in the United States exceeds 90% for most recommended vaccines in the early childhood series (2); however, previous studies have found that few children receive all recommended vaccine doses on time (3). The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH), using information from the Minnesota Immunization Information Connection (MIIC) and the MDH Office of Vital Records, examined early childhood immunization rates and found that children with at least one foreign-born parent were less likely to be up-to-date on recommended immunizations at ages 2, 6, 18, and 36 months than were children with two U.S.-born parents. Vaccination coverage at age 36 months varied by mother's region of origin, ranging from 77.5% among children born to mothers from Central and South America and the Caribbean to 44.2% among children born to mothers from Somalia. Low vaccination coverage in these communities puts susceptible children and adults at risk for outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases, as evidenced by the recent measles outbreak in Minnesota (4). Increased outreach to immigrant, migrant, and refugee populations and other populations with low up-to-date vaccination rates might improve timely vaccination in these communities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child, Preschool#Disease Outbreaks#Emigrants and Immigrants#Female#Humans#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Male#Measles#Minnesota#Mothers#Parents#Vaccination#Vaccines#Young Adult"
b'State surveillance during the last 10 years reveals a nationwide increase in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection among young adults (1). The proportion of infants born to HCV-infected women is also increasing nationally (2). To estimate the proportion of infants born to HCV-infected women and the frequency of confirmed HCV infection in their infants, maternal name and date of birth from HCV reports in the Wisconsin Electronic Disease Surveillance System (WEDSS) were linked to Wisconsin Medicaid data for 2011-2015 births. During this period, in the Wisconsin Medicaid population, the proportion of women who had evidence of HCV infection during pregnancy increased 93%, from 1 in 368 pregnancies to 1 in 192. Among 183 infants born to women with evidence of HCV viremia during pregnancy, 34% received recommended HCV testing (3). Mother-to-infant (vertical) transmission was documented in 4% of infants. Improvements in HCV screening practices among pregnant women and infants could enhance identification of infants at risk for vertical transmission of HCV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C#Humans#Infant#Infectious Disease Transmission, Vertical#Mass Screening#Medicaid#Middle Aged#Population Surveillance#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Risk Assessment#United States#Viremia#Wisconsin#Young Adult'
b'Cigarette smoking has declined considerably among U.S. adults over several decades (1); however, increases have occurred in the use of noncigarette tobacco products in recent years, and the use of multiple tobacco products has become common among current users of noncigarette tobacco products (2,3). Differences in tobacco use have also been observed across population subgroups, including among working adults (2,4). CDC analyzed National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) data for 2014-2016 to describe the most recent prevalence estimates of current (every day or some days) tobacco product use among working U.S. adults by industry and occupation. Among working adults, 22.1% (32.7 million) currently used any form of tobacco; 15.4% used cigarettes, 5.8% used other combustible tobacco (cigars, pipes, water pipes or hookahs, very small cigars, and bidis), 3.0% used smokeless tobacco, and 3.6% used electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes); 4.6% (6.9 million) reported current use of two or more tobacco products. By industry, any tobacco use ranged from 11.0% among education services to 34.3% among construction workers; current use of two or more tobacco products was highest among construction workers (7.1%). By occupation, any tobacco use ranged from 9.3% among life, physical, and social science workers to 37.2% among installation, maintenance, and repair workers; current use of two or more tobacco products was highest among installation, maintenance, and repair workers (10.1%). Proven interventions to prevent and reduce tobacco product use, including current use of multiple products, among working adults are important (5,6). Workplace tobacco-control interventions have been especially effective in reducing cigarette smoking prevalence (7). labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Industry#Male#Middle Aged#Occupations#Prevalence#Smoking#Tobacco Products#United States#Young Adult'
b'An autoimmune background is suspected for Doberman hepatitis (DH). It is based on the finding of mononuclear cell infiltrates in the liver, strong female bias, association to the homozygous risk factor dog leucocyte antigen (DLA) allele DRB1*00601 and aberrant major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expression on hepatocytes that correlates with the degree of inflammation in the liver. The aim of this study was to search for autoantibodies against liver-related antigens associated with DH. Twenty-five Dobermans with subclinical DH (SDH), 13 that clinically manifest DH (CDH) and 17 healthy controls were studied. Immunoblotting analysis detected specific antibodies in the DH sera. By mass spectrometry the targets were identified as liver-related enzymes glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). Using ELISA, anti-GAPDH IgG was detected in 36% (9/25) of SDH dogs and 69.2% (9/13) of the CDH dogs compared to healthy controls (0/17) (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0005). Anti-ADH IgG was detected in 72% (18/25) of SDH dogs and 76.9% (10/13) of CDH dogs and only in one (1/17) control (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0005). The finding of novel autoantigens, GAPDH and ADH strengthen the hypothesis that DH is an autoimmune disease of the liver. These findings suggest that DH could be diagnosed by screening for autoantibodies against the defined antigens. labels: #Alcohol Dehydrogenase#Animals#Autoantibodies#Autoantigens#Dogs#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Glyceraldehyde 3-Phosphate#Hepatitis, Animal#Immunoblotting#Male#Proteome#Proteomics'
b"On April 25, 2017, the Sinoe County Health Team (CHT) notified the Liberia Ministry of Health (MoH) and the National Public Health Institute of Liberia of an unknown illness among 14 persons that resulted in eight deaths in Sinoe County. On April 26, the National Rapid Response Team and epidemiologists from CDC, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the African Field Epidemiology Network (AFENET) in Liberia were deployed to support the county-led response. Measures were immediately implemented to identify all cases, ascertain the cause of illness, and control the outbreak. Illness was associated with attendance at a funeral event, and laboratory testing confirmed Neisseria meningitidis in biologic specimens from cases. The 2014-2015 Ebola virus disease (Ebola) outbreak in West Africa devastated Liberia's already fragile health system, and it took many months for the country to mount an effective response to control the outbreak. Substantial efforts have been made to strengthen Liberia's health system to prevent, detect, and respond to health threats. The rapid and efficient field response to this outbreak of N. meningitidis resulted in implementation of appropriate steps to prevent a widespread outbreak and reflects improved public health and outbreak response capacity in Liberia. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Capacity Building#Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Child#Cluster Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#International Cooperation#Liberia#Male#Middle Aged#Neisseria meningitidis#Public Health Practice#United States#World Health Organization#Young Adult"
b'On April 25, 2017, a cluster of unexplained illness and deaths among persons who had attended a funeral during April 21-22 was reported in Sinoe County, Liberia (1). Using a broad initial case definition, 31 cases were identified, including 13 (42%) deaths. Twenty-seven cases were from Sinoe County (1), and two cases each were from Grand Bassa and Monsterrado counties, respectively. On May 5, 2017, initial multipathogen testing of specimens from four fatal cases using the Taqman Array Card (TAC) assay identified Neisseria meningitidis in all specimens. Subsequent testing using direct real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) confirmed N. meningitidis in 14 (58%) of 24 patients with available specimens and identified N. meningitidis serogroup C (NmC) in 13 (54%) patients. N. meningitidis was detected in specimens from 11 of the 13 patients who died; no specimens were available from the other two fatal cases. On May 16, 2017, the National Public Health Institute of Liberia and the Ministry of Health of Liberia issued a press release confirming serogroup C meningococcal disease as the cause of this outbreak in Liberia. labels: #Clinical Laboratory Services#Cluster Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Liberia#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Neisseria meningitidis, Serogroup C#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Time Factors'
b'The fourth United Nations Millennium Development Goal, adopted in 2000, set a target to reduce child mortality by two thirds by 2015. One indicator of progress toward this target was measles vaccination coverage (1). In 2010, the World Health Assembly (WHA) set three milestones for measles control by 2015: 1) increase routine coverage with the first dose of a measles-containing vaccine (MCV1) among children aged 1 year to \xe2\x89\xa590% at the national level and to \xe2\x89\xa580% in every district; 2) reduce global annual measles incidence to<5 cases per million population; and 3) reduce global measles mortality by 95% from the 2000 estimate (2).* In 2012, WHA endorsed the Global Vaccine Action Plan,\xe2\x80\xa0with the objective of eliminating measles in four World Health Organization (WHO) regions by 2015 and in five regions by 2020. Countries in all six WHO regions have adopted goals for measles elimination by or before 2020. Measles elimination is defined as the absence of endemic measles virus transmission in a region or other defined geographic area for \xe2\x89\xa512 months, in the presence of a high quality surveillance system that meets targets of key performance indicators. This report updates a previous report (3) and describes progress toward global measles control milestones and regional measles elimination goals during 2000-2016. During this period, annual reported measles incidence decreased 87%, from 145 to 19 cases per million persons, and annual estimated measles deaths decreased 84%, from 550,100 to 89,780; measles vaccination prevented an estimated 20.4 million deaths. However, the 2015 milestones have not yet been met; only one WHO region has been verified as having eliminated measles. Improved implementation of elimination strategies by countries and their partners is needed, with focus on increasing vaccination coverage through substantial and sustained additional investments in health systems, strengthening surveillance systems, using surveillance data to drive programmatic actions, securing political commitment, and raising the visibility of measles elimination goals. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Eradication#Global Health#Humans#Immunization Programs#Incidence#Infant#Measles#Measles Vaccine#Young Adult'
b'PROBLEM/CONDITION: Receipt of key preventive health services among women and men of reproductive age (i.e., 15-44 years) can help them achieve their desired number and spacing of healthy children and improve their overall health. The 2014 publication Providing Quality Family Planning Services: Recommendations of CDC and the U.S. Office of Population Affairs (QFP) establishes standards for providing a core set of preventive services to promote these goals. These services include contraceptive care for persons seeking to prevent or delay pregnancy, pregnancy testing and counseling, basic infertility services for those seeking to achieve pregnancy, sexually transmitted disease (STD) services, and other preconception care and related preventive health services. QFP describes how to provide these services and recommends using family planning and other primary care visits to screen for and offer the full range of these services. This report presents baseline estimates of the use of these preventive services before the publication of QFP that can be used to monitor progress toward improving the quality of preventive care received by women and men of reproductive age.PERIOD COVERED: 2011-2013.DESCRIPTION OF THE SYSTEM: Three surveillance systems were used to document receipt of preventive health services among women and men of reproductive age as recommended in QFP. The National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) collects data on factors that influence reproductive health in the United States since 1973, with a focus on fertility, sexual activity, contraceptive use, reproductive health care, family formation, child care, and related topics. NSFG uses a stratified, multistage probability sample to produce nationally representative estimates for the U.S. household population of women and men aged 15-44 years. This report uses data from the 2011-2013 NSFG. The Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System (PRAMS) is an ongoing, state- and population-based surveillance system designed to monitor selected maternal behaviors and experiences that occur before, during, and shortly after pregnancy among women who deliver live-born infants in the United States. Annual PRAMS data sets are created and used to produce statewide estimates of preconception and perinatal health behaviors and experiences. This report uses PRAMS data for 2011-2012 from 11 states (Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Jersey, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, and West Virginia). The National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) is a nationally representative survey of noninstitutionalized civilians in the United States. NHIS collects data on a broad range of health topics, including the prevalence, distribution, and effects of illness and disability and the services rendered for or because of such conditions. Households are identified through a multistage probability household sampling design, and estimates are produced using weights that account for the sampling design, nonresponse, and poststratification adjustments. This report uses data from the 2013 NHIS for women aged 18-44 years.RESULTS: Many preventive health services recommended in QFP were not received by all women and men of reproductive age. For contraceptive services, including contraceptive counseling and advice, 46.5% of women aged 15-44 years at risk for unintended pregnancy received services in the past year, and 4.5% of men who had vaginal intercourse in the past year received services in that year. For sexually transmitted disease (STD) services, among all women aged 15-24 years who had oral, anal, or vaginal sex with an opposite sex partner in the past year, 37.5% were tested for chlamydia in that year. Among persons aged 15-44 years who were at risk because they were not in a mutually monogamous relationship during the past year, 45.3% of women were tested for chlamydia and 32.5% of men were tested for any STD in that year. For preconception care and related preventive health services, data from selected states indicated that 33.2% of women with a recent live birth (i.e., 2-9 months postpartum) talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy; of selected preconception counseling topics, the most frequently discussed was taking vitamins with folic acid before pregnancy (81.2%), followed by achieving a healthy weight before pregnancy (62.9%) and how drinking alcohol (60.3%) or smoking (58.2%) during pregnancy can affect a baby. Nationally, among women aged 18-44 years irrespective of pregnancy status, 80.9% had their blood pressure checked by a health care professional and 31.7% received an influenza vaccine in the past year; 54.5% of those with high blood pressure were tested for diabetes, 44.9% of those with obesity had a health care professional talk with them about their diet, and 55.2% of those who were current smokers had a health professional talk with them about their smoking in the past year. Among all women aged 21-44 years, 81.6% received a Papanicolaou (Pap) test in the past 3 years. Receipt of certain preventive services varied by age and race/ethnicity. Among women with a recent live birth, the percentage of those who talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy increased with age (range: 25.9% and 25.2% for women aged \xe2\x89\xa419 and 20-24 years, respectively, to 35.9% and 37.8% for women aged 25-34 and \xe2\x89\xa535 years, respectively). Among women with a recent live birth, the percentage of those who talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy was higher for non-Hispanic white (white) (35.2%) compared with non-Hispanic black (black) (30.0%) and Hispanic (26.0%) women. Conversely, across most STD screening services evaluated, testing was highest among black women and men and lowest among their white counterparts. Receipt of many preventive services recommended in QFP increased consistently across categories of family income and continuity of health insurance coverage. Prevalence of service receipt was highest among women in the highest family income category (>400% of federal poverty level [FPL]) and among women with insurance coverage for each of the following: contraceptive services among women at risk for unintended pregnancy; medical services beyond advice to help achieve pregnancy; vaccinations (hepatitis B and human papillomavirus [HPV], ever; tetanus, past 10 years; influenza, past year); discussions with a health care professional about improving health before pregnancy and taking vitamins with folic acid; blood pressure and diabetes screening; discussions with a health care professional in the past year about diet, among those with obesity; discussions with a health care professional in the past year about smoking, among current smokers; Pap tests within the past 3 years; and mammograms within the past 2 years.INTERPRETATION: Before 2014, many women and men of reproductive age were not receiving several of the preventive services recommended for them in QFP. Although differences existed by age and race/ethnicity, across the range of recommended services, receipt was consistently lower among women and men with lower family income and greater instability in health insurance coverage.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: Information in this report on baseline receipt during 2011-2013 of preventive services for women and men of reproductive age can be used to target improvements in the use of recommended services through the development ofresearch priorities, information for decision makers, and public health practice. Health care administrators and practitioners can use the information to identify subpopulations with the greatest need for preventive services and make informed decisions on resource allocation. Public health researchers can use the information to guide research on the determinants of service use and factors that might increase use of preventive services. Policymakers can use this information to evaluate the impact of policy changes and assess resource needs for effective programs, research, and surveillance on the use of preventive health services for women and men of reproductive age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Population Surveillance#Preventive Health Services#United States#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a hepatic manifestation or precursor of metabolic syndrome, may increase nephrolithiasis, a renal manifestation of insulin resistance, but the prospective association between NAFLD and incident nephrolithiasis has not been evaluated. We examined the association of NAFLD with the development of nephrolithiasis in a large cohort of Korean men and women.METHODS: We performed a cohort study of 208,578 Korean adults who underwent a health checkup examination between January 2002 and December 2014 and were followed-up annually or biennially through December 2014. NAFLD was defined as the presence of fatty liver in the absence of excessive alcohol use or other identifiable causes. Fatty liver and nephrolithiasis were determined based on ultrasonographic findings. We used a parametric Cox model to estimate the adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) of nephrolithiasis according to the presence of NAFLD.RESULTS: During 1,054,887.6 person-year of follow-up, 16,442 participants developed nephrolithiasis. After adjusting for age, center, year of screening exam, smoking status, alcohol intake, physical activity, education level, body mass index, history of hypertension and diabetes, HOMA-IR, uric acid and C-reactive protein, male participants with NAFLD had a significantly increased risk of nephrolithiasis than those without NAFLD (adjusted HR 1.17, 95% CI 1.06-1.30). However, no association between NAFLD and nephrolithiasis was observed in women (adjusted HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.81-1.16).CONCLUSIONS: In this large cohort study of young and middle-aged Koreans, NAFLD was significantly associated with an increased incidence of nephrolithiasis in men but not in women. labels: #Adult#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrolithiasis#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease'
b"Human action recognition using 3D pose data has gained a growing interest in the field of computer robotic interfaces and pattern recognition since the availability of hardware to capture human pose. In this paper, we propose a fast, simple, and powerful method of human action recognition based on human kinematic similarity. The key to this method is that the action descriptor consists of joints position, angular velocity and angular acceleration, which can meet the different individual sizes and eliminate the complex normalization. The angular parameters of joints within a short sliding time window (approximately 5 frames) around the current frame are used to express each pose frame of human action sequence. Moreover, three modified KNN (k-nearest-neighbors algorithm) classifiers are employed in our method: one for achieving the confidence of every frame in the training step, one for estimating the frame label of each descriptor, and one for classifying actions. Additional estimating of the frame's time label makes it possible to address single input frames. This approach can be used on difficult, unsegmented sequences. The proposed method is efficient and can be run in real time. The research shows that many public datasets are irregularly segmented, and a simple method is provided to regularize the datasets. The approach is tested on some challenging datasets such as MSR-Action3D, MSRDailyActivity3D, and UTD-MHAD. The results indicate our method achieves a higher accuracy. labels: #Algorithms#Biomechanical Phenomena#Humans#Pattern Recognition, Automated"
b'BACKGROUND: Asthma is a non-curable but preventable disease, responsible for higher morbidity worldwide. According to recent WHO report, nearly 235 million people are suffering from asthma leading to 383000 deaths in 2015. The burden of asthma morbidity is higher in developed countries and is increasing in developing countries.OBJECTIVE: The present study was aimed at studying the change in prevalence rate of asthma, associated risk factors and estimation of morbidity burden and avoidable cases of asthma in India.METHODS: The second round of Indian Human Development Survey (IHDS-II), 2011-12, was used for the study. For the present study, asthma was defines as ever diagnosed with asthma or having cough with short breath. Multiple-logistic regression was used to identify the possible risk factors associated with prevalence of reporting asthma. Population attributable fractions (PAFs) were computed to estimate the overall and risk factors specific burden of morbidity due to asthma using the extrapolated population of year 2015 using 2011 census.RESULTS: Overall prevalence rate of asthma increased from 41.9 (per 1000 population) in 2004-05 to 54.9 (per 1000 population) in 2011-12. The prevalence rate of reporting asthma was higher in poorer states compared to richer states, and also varied by sub-geographies, with higher prevalence rate in northern states of the country and lower rates in north-eastern states of the country. The odds of reporting asthma was higher for younger and older ages, individual with fewer years of schooling (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.21-1.64) for individual with zero years of schooling compared to those with 11 or more years of schooling, individual from lower economic status, individual living in household using unclean fuels (OR:1.21; 95% CI: 1.08-1.34) and smokers (OR: 1.34; 95% CI: 1.17-1.55) compared to their counterparts. In the year 2015, the overall morbidity burden of asthma was estimated at nearly 65 million and more than 82 thousand deaths were attributed due to asthma. The burden was highest among individuals living in households using solid fuels (firewood~80%, Kerosene~78%). One-third of the cases could be eliminated by minimising the use of any solid fuels. Around 17% of all the asthma cases in population could be attributed to underweight.CONCLUSION: Eliminating the modifiable risk factors could help reduce in huge amount of asthma cases for example by providing education, cessation in smoking, and schemes like Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), by providing clean fuel (LPG) to poor and vulnerable households. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Asthma#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#India#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Young Adult'
b'The induction of rapid cell death is an effective strategy for plants to restrict biotrophic and hemi-biotrophic pathogens at the infection site. However, activation of cell death comes at a high cost, as dead cells will no longer be available for defense responses nor general metabolic processes. In addition, necrotrophic pathogens that thrive on dead tissue, take advantage of cell death-triggering mechanisms. Mechanisms by which plants solve this conundrum remain described. Here, we identify PLANT SMY2-TYPE ILE-GYF DOMAIN-CONTAINING PROTEIN 1 (PSIG1) and show that PSIG1 helps to restrict cell death induction during pathogen infection. Inactivation of PSIG1 does not result in spontaneous lesions, and enhanced cell death in psig1 mutants is independent of salicylic acid (SA) biosynthesis or reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Moreover, PSIG1 interacts with SMG7, which plays a role in nonsense-mediated RNA decay (NMD), and the smg7-4 mutant allele mimics the cell death phenotype of the psig1 mutants. Intriguingly, the psig1 mutants display enhanced susceptibility to the hemi-biotrophic bacterial pathogen. These findings point to the existence and importance of the SA- and ROS-independent cell death constraining mechanism as a part of the plant immune system. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Carrier Proteins#Cell Death#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Nonsense Mediated mRNA Decay#Plant Diseases#Protein Domains#Reactive Oxygen Species#Salicylic Acid'
b'Host-targeting type IV secretion systems (T4SS) evolved from conjugative T4SS machineries that mediate interbacterial plasmid transfer. However, the origins of effectors secreted by these virulence devices have remained largely elusive. Previous work showed that some effectors exhibit homology to toxins of bacterial toxin-antitoxin modules, but the evolutionary trajectories underlying these ties had not been resolved. We previously reported that FicT toxins of FicTA toxin-antitoxin modules disrupt cellular DNA topology via their enzymatic FIC (filamentation induced by cAMP) domain. Intriguingly, the FIC domain of the FicT toxin VbhT of Bartonella schoenbuchensis is fused to a type IV secretion signal-the BID (Bep intracellular delivery) domain-similar to the Bartonella effector proteins (Beps) that are secreted into eukaryotic host cells via the host-targeting VirB T4SS. In this study, we show that the VbhT toxin is an interbacterial effector protein secreted via the conjugative Vbh T4SS that is closely related to the VirB T4SS and encoded by plasmid pVbh of B. schoenbuchensis. We therefore propose that the Vbh T4SS together with its effector VbhT represent an evolutionary missing link on a path that leads from a regular conjugation system and FicTA toxin-antitoxin modules to the VirB T4SS and the Beps. Intriguingly, phylogenetic analyses revealed that the fusion of FIC and BID domains has probably occurred independently in VbhT and the common ancestor of the Beps, suggesting parallel evolutionary paths. Moreover, several other examples of TA module toxins that are bona fide substrates of conjugative T4SS indicate that their recruitment as interbacterial effectors is prevalent and serves yet unknown biological functions in the context of bacterial conjugation. We propose that the adaptation for interbacterial transfer favors the exaptation of FicT and other TA module toxins as inter-kingdom effectors and may thus constitute an important stepping stone in the evolution of host-targeted effector proteins. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Antitoxins#Bacterial Proteins#Bacterial Secretion Systems#Bacterial Toxins#Bartonella#Bartonella Infections#Conjugation, Genetic#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Plasmids#Sequence Homology#Virulence'
b'BACKGROUND: Lack of surveillance systems and accurate data impede evidence-based decisions on treatment and prevention of enteric fever, caused by Salmonella Typhi/Paratyphi. The WHO coordinates a global Invasive Bacterial-Vaccine Preventable Diseases (IB-VPD) surveillance network but does not monitor enteric fever. We evaluated the feasibility and sustainability of integrating enteric fever surveillance into the ongoing IB-VPD platform.METHODOLOGIES: The IB-VPD surveillance system uses WHO definitions to enroll 2-59 month children hospitalized with possible pneumonia, sepsis or meningitis. We expanded this surveillance system to additionally capture suspect enteric fever cases during 2012-2016, in two WHO sentinel hospitals of Bangladesh, by adding inclusion criteria of fever \xe2\x89\xa5102\xc2\xb0F for \xe2\x89\xa53 days, irrespective of other manifestations. Culture-positive enteric fever cases from in-patient departments (IPD) detected in the hospital laboratories but missed by the expanded surveillance, were also enrolled to assess completion. Costs for this integration were calculated for the additional personnel and resources required.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In the IB-VPD surveillance, 5,185 cases were enrolled; 3% (N = 171/5185) were positive for microbiological growth, of which 55% (94/171) were culture-confirmed cases of enteric fever (85 Typhi and 9 Paratyphi A). The added inclusion criteria for enteric fever enrolled an additional 1,699 cases; 22% (358/1699) were positive, of which 85% (349/358) were enteric fever cases (305 Typhi and 44 Paratyphi A). Laboratory surveillance of in-patients of all ages enrolled 311 additional enteric fever cases (263 Typhi and 48 Paratyphi A); 9% (28/311) were 2-59 m and 91% (283/311)>59 m. Altogether, 754 (94+349+311) culture-confirmed enteric fever cases were found, of which 471 were 2-59 m. Of these 471 cases, 94% (443/471) were identified through the hospital surveillances and 6% (28/471) through laboratory results. Twenty-three percent (170/754) of all cases were children<2 years. Additional cost for the integration was USD 44,974/year, a 27% increase to the IB-VPD annual expenditure.CONCLUSION: In a setting where enteric disease is a substantial public health problem, we could integrate enteric fever surveillance into the standard IB-VPD surveillance platform at a modest cost. labels: #Bangladesh#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Paratyphoid Fever#Public Health Surveillance#Salmonella paratyphi A#Salmonella typhi#Typhoid Fever#Typhoid-Paratyphoid Vaccines#Vaccination#World Health Organization'
b'Schistosomiasis has been of concern to local health authorities for most of the last century, and in spite of a lack of effective chemotherapy, the disease was dealt with quite effectively in many endemic countries by snail control and environmental management [1]. Much of this work was reported in journals prior to the electronic era but, sadly, seems to have been subsequently ignored. For many years, there followed a global hiatus on schistosomiasis control, and much of the local expertise was lost, but many things have changed more recently, mainly with the advent of generic and affordable praziquantel. With the increased availability of this drug, there has been anincreasing interest in readdressing schistosomes as well as other neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). The strategic approach for this had been based almost exclusively on chemotherapy. Recently, however, questions arose about this strategy with evidence that chemotherapy alone was not succeeding [2]. Additional strategies were needed, and the "Towards Elimination of Schistosomiasis" (TES) 2017 Conference in Cameroon stressed an integrated PHASE strategy. This was in line with the WHO-NTD and WHO-AFRO 2014-2020 Regional Strategy on NTDs and directed emphasis on transmission control. Subsequently, this emphasis was discussed in a comprehensive review [3]that stressed the importance of such additions to any elimination programme. In reality, this means focusing on the aquatic snail hosts where and when transmission occurs, defining other risk factors such as water contact and latrine design and identifying improved sanitation and health education as essential components for elimination. For schistosomiasis reduction during the mid-20th century, transmission control was used extensively, but these facts are not well reported. Recent reviews have attempted to cover previous research [4,5], but sadly, they have left major knowledge gaps, particularly from Africa. These omissions also occurred in a recent WHO pamphlet on molluscicides [6]. Sadly, search engines used to retrieve information appear to miss much done by 5 African research institutes active from 1950 to 1990. It seems appropriate to take a look back to a time when fieldwork was a focus of research and transmission control was emphasised. labels: #Africa#Animals#Congresses as Topic#Disease Eradication#Disease Vectors#Humans#Molluscacides#Neglected Diseases#Praziquantel#Sanitation#Schistosomiasis#Snails#World Health Organization#Zimbabwe'
b'BACKGROUND: Most studies showing a volume outcome effect in resection surgery for oesophago-gastric cancer were conducted before the centralisation of clinical services. This study evaluated the relation between hospital- and surgeon volume and different risk-adjusted outcomes after oesophago-gastric (OG) cancer surgery in England between 2011 and 2013.METHODS: In data from the National Oesophago-Gastric Cancer Audit from the UK, multivariable random-effects logistic regression models were used to quantify the effect of surgeon and hospital volume on three outcomes: 30-day and 90-day mortality and anastomotic leakage. The models included patient risk factors to adjust for differences in case-mix among hospitals and surgeons. The between-cluster heterogeneity was estimated with the median odds ratio (MOR).RESULTS: The study included patients treated at 42 hospitals and 329 surgeons. The median (interquartile range) of the annual hospital and surgeon volumes were 110 patients (82 to 137) and 13 patients (8 to 19), respectively. The overall rates for 30-day and 90-day mortality were 2.3% and 4.4% respectively, and the anastomotic leakage was 6.3%. Higher hospital volume was associated with lower 30-day mortality (OR: 0.94; 95% CI: 0.91-0.98) and lower anastomotic leakage rates (OR: 0.96; 95% CI: 0.93-0.98) but not 90-day mortality. Higher surgeon volume was only associated with lower anastomotic leakage rates (OR: 0.81; 95% CI: 0.72-0.92). Hospital volume explained a part of the between-hospital variation in 30-day mortality whereas surgeon volume explained part of the between-hospital variation in anastomotic leakage.CONCLUSIONS: In the setting of centralized O-G cancer surgery in England, we could still observe an effect of volume on short-term outcomes. However, the effect is inconsistent, depending on the type of outcome measure under consideration, and much smaller than in previous studies. Efforts to centralise O-G cancer services further should carefully address the effects of both hospital and surgeon volume on the range of outcome measures that are relevant to patients. labels: #Aged#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Stomach Neoplasms'
b"BACKGROUND: Barrett's esophagus (BE) and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) are far more prevalent in European Americans than in African Americans. Hypothesizing that this racial disparity in prevalence might represent a genetic susceptibility, we used an admixture mapping approach to interrogate disease association with genomic differences between European and African ancestry.METHODS: Formalin fixed paraffin embedded samples were identified from 54 African Americans with BE or EAC through review of surgical pathology databases at participating Barrett's Esophagus Translational Research Network (BETRNet) institutions. DNA was extracted from normal tissue, and genotyped on the Illumina OmniQuad SNP chip. Case-only admixture mapping analysis was performed on the data from both all 54 cases and also on a subset of 28 cases with high genotyping quality. Haplotype phases were inferred with Beagle 3.3.2, and local African and European ancestries were inferred with SABER plus. Disease association was tested by estimating and testing excess European ancestry and contrasting it to excess African ancestry.RESULTS: Both datasets, the 54 cases and the 28 cases, identified two admixture regions. An association of excess European ancestry on chromosome 11p reached a 5% genome-wide significance threshold, corresponding to -log10(P) = 4.28. A second peak on chromosome 8q reached -log10(P) = 2.73. The converse analysis examining excess African ancestry found no genetic regions with significant excess African ancestry associated with BE and EAC. On average, the regions on chromosomes 8q and 11p showed excess European ancestry of 15% and 20%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Chromosomal regions on 11p15 and 8q22-24 are associated with excess European ancestry in African Americans with BE and EAC. Because GWAS have not reported any variants in these two regions, low frequency and/or rare disease associated variants that confer susceptibility to developing BE and EAC may be driving the observed European ancestry association evidence. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#African Americans#Barrett Esophagus#Esophageal Neoplasms#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans"
b"Maleic acid (MA), an intermediate reagent used in many industrial products, instigated public health concerns in Taiwan when it was used to adulterate an array of starch-based delicacies to improve texture and storage time. Established studies reported that exposure to high concentrations of MA induce renal injury; little is known whether oxidative stress is induced at a relative low dose. This study aims to investigate the effect of oral single dose exposure of MA on the status of oxidative stress and inflammation. Single dose of MA at 0, 6 and 60 mg/kg (control, low- and high-dose groups, respectively) were orally administered to adult male and female rats. Urine samples were collected and analyzed to measure 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), 8-iso-prostaglandin F2\xce\xb1 (8-IsoPGF2\xce\xb1), 8-nitroguanine (8-NO2Gua) and N-acetyl-S-(tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-2-pentyl-3-furanyl)-L-cysteine (HNE-MA) using LC-MS/MS. Results revealed that oral consumption of MA induced oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation, as demonstrated by the statistically significant increases in urinary levels of 8-NO2Gua, 8-OHdG, and 8-isoPGF2\xce\xb1, in high-dosed male rats within 12 h of oral gavage (p<0.05). Additionally, increases in concentration of these biomarkers persist for days after consumption; male rats appear to be more sensitive to oxidative burden compared to their counterparts. The aforementioned findings could help elucidate the mechanisms through which nephrotoxicity occur. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Body Weight#DNA Damage#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Inflammation#Male#Maleates#Oxidative Stress#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley"
b'Merging paired-end shotgun reads generated on high-throughput sequencing platforms can substantially improve various subsequent bioinformatics processes, including genome assembly, binning, mapping, annotation, and clustering for taxonomic analysis. With the inexorable growth of sequence data volume and CPU core counts, the speed and scalability of read-processing tools becomes ever-more important. The accuracy of shotgun read merging is crucial as well, as errors introduced by incorrect merging percolate through to reduce the quality of downstream analysis. Thus, we designed a new tool to maximize accuracy and minimize processing time, allowing the use of read merging on larger datasets, and in analyses highly sensitive to errors. We present BBMerge, a new merging tool for paired-end shotgun sequence data. We benchmark BBMerge by comparison with eight other widely used merging tools, assessing speed, accuracy and scalability. Evaluations of both synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that BBMerge produces merged shotgun reads with greater accuracy and at higher speed than any existing merging tool examined. BBMerge also provides the ability to merge non-overlapping shotgun read pairs by using k-mer frequency information to assemble the unsequenced gap between reads, achieving a significantly higher merge rate while maintaining or increasing accuracy. labels: #Algorithms#Computational Biology#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing'
b'INTRODUCTION: Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), a disease caused by protozoan parasites transmitted by tsetse flies, is an important neglected tropical disease endemic in remote regions of sub-Saharan Africa. Although the determination of the burden of HAT has been based on incidence, mortality and morbidity rates, the true burden of HAT goes beyond these metrics. This study sought to establish the socio-economic burden that households with HAT faced and the coping strategies they employed to deal with the increased burden.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A mixed methods approach was used and data were obtained through: review of hospital records; structured interviews (152); key informant interviews (11); case narratives (12) and focus group discussions (15) with participants drawn from sleeping sickness patients in the south western HAT foci in Kenya. Quantitative data were analysed using descriptive statistics while qualitative data was analysed based on emerging themes.RESULTS: Socio-economic impacts included, disruption of daily activities, food insecurity, neglect of homestead, poor academic performance/school drop-outs and death. Delayed diagnosis of HAT caused 93% of the affected households to experience an increase in financial expenditure (ranging from US$ 60-170) in seeking treatment. Out of these, 81.5% experienced difficulties in raising money for treatment resorting to various ways of raising it. The coping strategies employed to deal with the increased financial expenditure included: sale of agricultural produce (64%); seeking assistance from family and friends (54%); sale/lease of family assets (22%); seeking credit (22%) and use of personal savings (17%).CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION: Coping strategies outlined in this study impacted negatively on the affected households leading to further food insecurity and impoverishment. Calculation of the true burden of disease needs to go beyond incidence, mortality and morbidity rates to capture socio-economic variables entailed in seeking treatment and coping strategies of HAT affected households. labels: #Cost of Illness#Family Characteristics#Food Supply#Health Expenditures#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Kenya#Socioeconomic Factors#Trypanosomiasis, African'
b'BACKGROUND: Yaws is a non-venereal treponemal infection caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue. The disease is targeted by WHO for eradication by 2020. Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are envisaged for confirmation of clinical cases during treatment campaigns and for certification of the interruption of transmission. Yaws testing requires both treponemal (trep) and non-treponemal (non-trep) assays for diagnosis of current infection. We evaluate a sequential testing strategy (using a treponemal RDT before a trep/non-trep RDT) in terms of cost and cost-effectiveness, relative to a single-assay combined testing strategy (using the trep/non-trep RDT alone), for two use cases: individual diagnosis and community surveillance.METHODS: We use cohort decision analysis to examine the diagnostic and cost outcomes. We estimate cost and cost-effectiveness of the alternative testing strategies at different levels of prevalence of past/current infection and current infection under each use case. We take the perspective of the global yaws eradication programme. We calculate the total number of correct diagnoses for each strategy over a range of plausible prevalences. We employ probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) to account for uncertainty and report 95% intervals.RESULTS: At current prices of the treponemal and trep/non-trep RDTs, the sequential strategy is cost-saving for individual diagnosis at prevalence of past/current infection less than 85% (81-90); it is cost-saving for surveillance at less than 100%. The threshold price of the trep/non-trep RDT (below which the sequential strategy would no longer be cost-saving) is US$ 1.08 (1.02-1.14) for individual diagnosis at high prevalence of past/current infection (51%) and US$ 0.54 (0.52-0.56) for community surveillance at low prevalence (15%).DISCUSSION: We find that the sequential strategy is cost-saving for both diagnosis and surveillance in most relevant settings. In the absence of evidence assessing relative performance (sensitivity and specificity), cost-effectiveness is uncertain. However, the conditions under which the combined test only strategy might be more cost-effective than the sequential strategy are limited. A cheaper trep/non-trep RDT is needed, costing no more than US$ 0.50-1.00, depending on the use case. Our results will help enhance the cost-effectiveness of yaws programmes in the 13 countries known to be currently endemic. It will also inform efforts in the much larger group of 71 countries with a history of yaws, many of which will have to undertake surveillance to confirm the interruption of transmission. labels: #Cohort Studies#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Diagnostic Techniques and Procedures#Disease Eradication#Epidemiological Monitoring#Humans#Prevalence#Sensitivity and Specificity#Treponema pallidum#Yaws'
b'The thalamus plays a critical role in the genesis of thalamocortical oscillations, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. To understand whether the isolated thalamus can generate multiple distinct oscillations, we developed a biophysical thalamic model to test the hypothesis that generation of and transition between distinct thalamic oscillations can be explained as a function of neuromodulation by acetylcholine (ACh) and norepinephrine (NE) and afferent synaptic excitation. Indeed, the model exhibited four distinct thalamic rhythms (delta, sleep spindle, alpha and gamma oscillations) that span the physiological states corresponding to different arousal levels from deep sleep to focused attention. Our simulation results indicate that generation of these distinct thalamic oscillations is a result of both intrinsic oscillatory cellular properties and specific network connectivity patterns. We then systematically varied the ACh/NE and input levels to generate a complete map of the different oscillatory states and their transitions. Lastly, we applied periodic stimulation to the thalamic network and found that entrainment of thalamic oscillations is highly state-dependent. Our results support the hypothesis that ACh/NE modulation and afferent excitation define thalamic oscillatory states and their response to brain stimulation. Our model proposes a broader and more central role of the thalamus in the genesis of multiple distinct thalamo-cortical rhythms than previously assumed. labels: #Acetylcholine#Biological Clocks#Computer Simulation#Deep Brain Stimulation#Feedback, Physiological#Humans#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Neurotransmitter Agents#Norepinephrine#Oscillometry#Synaptic Transmission#Thalamus'
b'African lungfishes are ammonotelic in water. They can aestivate for long periods on land during drought. During aestivation, the gills are covered with dried mucus and ammonia excretion ceases. In fishes, ammonia excretion through the gills involves Rhesus glycoproteins (RhGP/Rhgp). This study aimed to obtain the complete cDNA coding sequences of rhgp from the gills of Protopterus annectens, and to determine their branchial mRNA and protein expression levels during the induction, maintenance and arousal phases of aestivation. Three isoforms of rhgp (rhag, rhbg and rhcg) were obtained in the gills of P. annectens. Their complete cDNA coding sequences ranged between 1311 and 1398 bp, coding for 436 to 465 amino acids with estimated molecular masses between 46.8 and 50.9 kDa. Dendrogramic analyses indicated that Rhag was grouped closer to fishes, while Rhbg and Rhcg were grouped closer to tetrapods. During the induction phase, the protein abundance of Rhag, but not its transcript level, was down-regulated in the gills, suggesting that there could be a decrease in the release of ammonia from the erythrocytes to the plasma. Furthermore, the branchial transcript levels of rhbg and rhcg decreased significantly, in preparation for the subsequent shutdown of gill functions. During the maintenance phase, the branchial expression levels of rhag/Rhag, rhbg/Rhbg and rhcg/Rhcg decreased significantly, indicating that their transcription and translation were down-regulated. This could be part of an overall mechanism to shut down branchial functions and save metabolic energy used for transcription and translation. It could also be regarded as an adaptive response to stop ammonia excretion. During the arousal phase, it is essential for the lungfish to regain the ability to excrete ammonia. Indeed, the protein abundance of Rhag, Rhbg and Rhcg recovered to the corresponding control levels after 1 day or 3 days of recovery from 6 months of aestivation. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Down-Regulation#Fishes#Gills#Glycoproteins#RNA, Messenger#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid'
b'The pathophysiology and natural history of pelvic organ prolapse (POP) are poorly understood. Consequently, our approaches to treatment of POP are limited. Alterations in the extracellular matrix components of pelvic support ligaments and vaginal tissue, including collagen and elastin, have been associated with the development of POP in animals and women. Prior studies have shown the protease MMP-9, a key player of ECM degradation, is upregulated in vaginal tissues from both mice and women with POP. On the other hand, fibulin-5, an elastogenic organizer, has been found to inhibit MMP-9 in the vaginal wall. Hence, we hypothesized that prolonged release of fibulin-5 may delay progression of POP. To test the hypothesis, oligo (ethylene glycol)-based thermosensitive hydrogels were fabricated, characterized and then used to deliver fibulin-5 to the vaginal wall and inhibit MMP-9 activity. The results indicate that hydrogels are cell and tissue compatible. The hydrogels also prolong the \xc2\xbd life of fibulin-5 in cultured vaginal fibroblasts and in the vaginal wall in vivo. Finally, fibulin-5-containing hydrogels resulted in incorporation of fibulin-5 into the vaginal matrix and inhibition of MMP-9 for several weeks after injection. These results support the idea of fibulin-5 releasing hydrogel being developed as a new treatment for POP. labels: #Animals#Female#Hydrogels#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Proteins#Vagina'
b'Cooking oil waste leads to well-known environmental impacts and its bioremediation by lipase-based enzymatic activity can minimize the high cytotoxic potential. In addition, they are among the biocatalysts most commercialized worldwide due to the versatility of reactions and substrates. However, although lipases are able to process cooking oil wastes, the products generated from this process do not necessarily become less toxic. Thus, the aim of the current study is to analyze the bioremediation of lipase-catalyzed cooking oil wastes, as well as their effect on the cytotoxicity of both the oil and its waste before and after enzymatic treatment. Thus, assessed the post-frying modification in soybean oil and in its waste, which was caused by hydrolysis reaction catalyzed by commercial and home-made lipases. The presence of lipases in the extracts obtained from orange wastes was identified by zymography. The profile of the fatty acid esters formed after these reactions was detected and quantified through gas chromatography and fatty acids profile compared through multivariate statistical analyses. Finally, the soybean oil and its waste, with and without enzymatic treatment, were assessed for toxicity in cytotoxicity assays conducted in vitro using fibroblast cell culture. The soybean oil wastes treated with core and frit lipases through transesterification reaction were less toxic than the untreated oils, thus confirming that cooking oil wastes can be bioremediated using orange lipases. labels: #Biodegradation, Environmental#Cooking#Esterification#Lipase#Soybean Oil'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess whether strain histograms are equal to strain ratios in predicting breast tumour malignancy and to see if either could be used to upgrade Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) 3 tumours for immediate biopsy.METHODS: Ninety-nine breast tumours were examined using B-mode BI-RADS scorings and strain elastography. Strain histograms and ratios were assessed, and areas- under-the-receiver-operating-characteristic-curve (AUROC) for each method calculated. In BI-RADS 3 tumours cut-offs for strain histogram and ratio values were calculated to see if some tumours could be upgraded for immediate biopsy. Linear regression was performed to evaluate the effect of tumour depth and size, and breast density on strain elastography.RESULTS: Forty-four of 99 (44.4%) tumours were malignant. AUROC of BI-RADS, strain histograms and strain ratios were 0.949, 0.830 and 0.794 respectively. There was no significant difference between AUROCs of strain histograms and strain ratios (P = 0.405), while they were both inferior to BI-RADS scoring (P<0.001, P = 0.008). Four out of 26 BI-RADS 3 tumours were malignant. When cut-offs of 189 for strain histograms and 1.44 for strain ratios were used to upgrade BI-RADS 3 tumours, AUROCS were 0.961 (Strain histograms and BI-RADS) and 0.941 (Strain ratios and BI-RADS). None of them was significantly different from BI-RADS scoring alone (P = 0.249 and P = 0.414). Tumour size and depth, and breast density influenced neither strain histograms (P = 0.196, P = 0.115 and P = 0.321) nor strain ratios (P = 0.411, P = 0.596 and P = 0.321).CONCLUSION: Strain histogram analyses are reliable and easy to do in breast cancer diagnosis and perform comparably to strain ratio analyses. No significant difference in AUROCs between BI-RADS scoring and elastography combined with BI-RADS scoring was found in this study. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged, 80 and over#Breast Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Mammography#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The entomopathogenic mushroom Cordyceps militaris is an important medicinal and food resource owing to its various medicinal components and pharmacological effects. However, the high frequency of strain degeneration during subculture seriously restricts the large-scale production of C. militaris, and the mechanism underlying strain degeneration remains unclear. In this study, we artificially cultured C. militaris for six generations and compared changes during fruiting body growth. The transcriptome of six generations of C. militaris strains were sequenced with the Illumine Hiseq4000.RESULTS: The subcultured C. militaris strains degenerated beginning at the third generation, with incomplete fruiting body growth beginning at the fourth generation. Over 9,015 unigenes and 731 new genes were identified. In addition, 35,323 alternative splicing (AS) events were detected in all samples, and more AS events occurred in the second, fourth and sixth generations. Compared with the first generation, the third generation (degenerated strain) included 2,498 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) including 1,729 up-regulated and 769 down-regulated genes. This number was higher than the number of DEGs in the second (1,892 DEGs), fourth (2,006 DEGs), fifth (2,273 DEGs) and sixth (2,188 DEGs) generations. Validation of RNA-seq by qRT-PCR showed that the expression patterns of 51 DEGs were in accordance with the transcriptome data.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the mechanism of C. militaris strain degeneration is associated with gene involved in toxin biosynthesis, energy metabolism, and DNA methylation and chromosome remodeling. labels: #Cordyceps#Gene Expression Regulation, Fungal#Genes, Fungal#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Transcriptome'
b'Hemogenic endothelium (HE) undergoes endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT) to generate blood, a process that requires progressive down-regulation of endothelial genes and induction of hematopoietic ones. Previously, we have shown that the transcription factor HoxA3 prevents blood formation by inhibiting Runx1 expression, maintaining endothelial gene expression and thus blocking EHT. In the present study, we show that HoxA3 also prevents blood formation by inhibiting Notch pathway. HoxA3 induced upregulation of Jag1 ligand in endothelial cells, which led to cis-inhibition of the Notch pathway, rendering the HE nonresponsive to Notch signals. While Notch activation alone was insufficient to promote blood formation in the presence of HoxA3, activation of Notch or downregulation of Jag1 resulted in a loss of the endothelial phenotype which is a prerequisite for EHT. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Notch pathway activation is necessary to downregulate endothelial markers during EHT. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Endothelial Cells#Hematopoiesis#Homeodomain Proteins#Jagged-1 Protein#Mice#Receptors, Notch#Signal Transduction'
b'Asthma is a chronic airway inflammation with a potential systemic impact. Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory artery disease. The aim of our study was to prove if there is a correlation between the occurrence of asthma and increased atherosclerotic vessel disorders. Vessel status was compared between mild-to-moderate, severe allergic asthma and matched controls. Measurements of artery stiffness were calculated by central pulse wave velocity, ultrasonographic strain imaging and ankle-brachial index. Atherosclerotic plaque burden was assessed by colour-coded duplex sonography. Additionally, analysis of cardiovascular and asthma blood markers was conducted. Arterial stiffness expressed as an increased central pulse wave velocity and decreased circumferential and radial strains as well as the prevalence of media sclerosis were significantly higher among asthma patients compared to controls. Atherosclerotic plaque burden was relevantly increased in asthma groups vs. controls (severe asthma: 43.1%, mild-to-moderate asthma: 25.0%, control: 14.3% of study participants). Except for the elevated IgE and fibrinogen concentrations as well as leukocyte number there were no relevant differences in the blood parameters between the groups. Allergic asthma is associated with distinct atherosclerotic artery changes compared to the respectively matched control collective. The severity of asthma correlates with more pronounced pathological vessel alternations. labels: #Adult#Arteries#Asthma#Atherosclerosis#Biomarkers#Female#Fibrinogen#Humans#Immunoglobulin E#Leukocyte Count#Male#Middle Aged#Pulse Wave Analysis#Ultrasonography, Doppler, Duplex'
b'The net form of net blotch caused by the necrotrophic fungus Pyrenophora teres f. teres is a major disease of barley, causing high yield losses and reduced malting and feed quality. Exploiting the allelic richness of wild barley proved to be a valuable tool to broaden the genetic base of resistance of modern elite cultivars. In this study, a SNP-based nested association mapping (NAM) study was conducted to map QTL for P. teres resistance in the barley population HEB-25 comprising 1,420 lines derived from BC1S3 generation. By scoring the percentage of infected leaf area followed by calculation of the average ordinate (AO) and scoring of the reaction type (RT) in two-year field trials a large variability of net blotch resistance across and within families of HEB-25 was observed. Genotype response to net blotch infection showed a range of 48.2% for AO (0.9-49.1%) and 6.4 for RT (2.2-8.6). NAM based on 5,715 informative SNPs resulted in the identification of 24 QTL for resistance against net blotch. Out of these, six QTL are considered novel showing no correspondence to previously reported QTL for net blotch resistance. Overall, variation of net blotch resistance in HEB-25 turned out to be controlled by small effect QTL. Results indicate the presence of alleles in HEB-25 differing in their effect on net blotch resistance. Results provide valuable information regarding the genetic architecture of the complex barley-P. teres f. teres interaction as well as for the improvement of net blotch resistance of elite barley cultivars. labels: #Ascomycota#Disease Resistance#Genotype#Hordeum#Plant Diseases#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b'BACKGROUND: Individuals with schizophrenia who are involuntarily admitted may have poorer prognosis, including higher readmission rates, than those voluntarily admitted. However, little is known about the risk factors for readmission in those schizophrenia patients who are involuntarily admitted.AIMS: We aim to explore the risk factors for readmission in this population.METHOD: We enrolled 138 schizophrenia patients with involuntary admission from July 2008 to June 2013 and followed those patients for readmission outcomes at 3 months and at 1 year.RESULTS: The one-year and 3-months readmission rates were 33.3% and 15.2%, respectively. Unmarried status (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 6.28, 95% CI: 1.48-26.62), previous history of involuntary admission (aOR = 4.08, 95% CI: 1.19-14.02), longer involuntary admission days (aOR = 1.04, 95% CI: 1.01-1.07) and shorter total admission days (aOR = 1.03, 95% CI: 1.01-1.05) were associated with increased risk for 1-year readmission. Younger age (aOR = 1.10, 95% CI 1.02-1.18) was associated with increased risk for 3-months readmission.CONCLUSIONS: Unmarried status, prior history of involuntary admission, longer involuntary admission days and shorter total admission days were associated with increased risk for 1-year readmission. Healthcare providers may need to focus on patients with these risk factors to reduce subsequent readmissions. labels: #Adult#Commitment of Mentally Ill#Female#Humans#Male#Patient Readmission#Risk Factors#Schizophrenia#Socioeconomic Factors#Taiwan#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: The weaning pig is used as an experimental model to assess the impact of diet on intestinal health. Blood parameters (BP) are considered a useful tool in humans, but there is very scarce information of such indicators in the weaning pig. The objective of the present study is to evaluate the use of different BP as indicators in an experimental model of salmonellosis.METHODOLOGY: Seventy-two 28-day-old piglets were divided into four groups in a 2x2 factorial arrangement, with animals receiving or not a probiotic combination based on B. infantis IM1\xc2\xae and B. lactis BPL6 (109 colony forming units (cfu)/d) and orally challenged or not a week later with Salmonella Typhimurium (5x108 cfu). Blood samples of one animal per pen (N = 24) were taken four days post-inoculation for the evaluation of different BP using an I-stat\xc2\xae System and of plasmatic concentrations of zinc, iron and copper.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Results reported marginal deficiencies of zinc in piglets at weaning. Moreover, plasmatic zinc, copper and iron presented good correlations with weight gain (r 0.57, r -0.67, r 0.54 respectively; P<0.01). Blood electrolytes (Na+, Cl- and K+) decreased (P<0.01) only when the performance of the animals was seriously compromised and clinical symptoms were more apparent. Acid-base balance parameters such as HCO3-, TCO2 and BEecf significantly correlated with weight gain, but only in the challenged animals (r -0.54, r -0.55, and r -0.51, respectively; P<0.05), suggesting metabolic acidosis depending on Salmonella infection. Glucose was affected by the challenge (P = 0.040), while Htc and Hgb increased with the challenge and decreased with the probiotic (P<0.05). Furthermore, correlations of Glu, Htc and Hgb with weight gain were observed (P<0.05). Overall, BP could be regarded as simple, useful indexes to assess performance and health of weaning piglets. labels: #Acid-Base Equilibrium#Animals#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Disease Models, Animal#Metals#Salmonella#Salmonella Infections#Swine#Swine Diseases'
b'The question of withdrawing artificial nutrition and hydration from people in a permanent vegetative state sparks considerable ethical and legal debate. Therefore, understanding the elements that influence such a decision is crucial. However, exploring perceptions of artificial nutrition and hydration is methodologically challenging for several reasons. First, because of the emotional state of the professionals and family members, who are facing an extremely distressing situation; second, because this question mirrors representations linked to a deep-rooted fear of dying of hunger and thirst; and third, because of taboos surrounding death. We sought to determine the best method to explore such complex situations in depth. This article aims to assess the relevance of the photo-elicitation interview method to analyze the perceptions and attitudes of health professionals and families of people in a permanent vegetative state regarding artificial nutrition and hydration. The photo-elicitation interview method consists in inserting one or more photographs into a research interview. An original set of 60 photos was built using Google Images and participants were asked to choose photos (10 maximum) and talk about them. The situations of 32 patients were explored in 23 dedicated centers for people in permanent vegetative state across France. In total, 138 interviews were conducted with health professionals and family members. We found that the photo-elicitation interview method 1) was well accepted by the participants and allowed them to express their emotions constructively, 2) fostered narration, reflexivity and introspection, 3) offered a sufficient "unusual angle" to allow participants to go beyond stereotypes and habits of thinking, and 4) can be replicated in other research areas. The use of visual methods currently constitutes an expanding area of research and this study stressed that this is of special interest to enhance research among populations facing end-of-life and ethical issues. labels: #Caregivers#Family#Female#Humans#Male#Parenteral Nutrition#Perception#Persistent Vegetative State#Photography#Physicians'
b'We conducted two studies of circadian misalignment in non-Hispanic African and European-Americans. In the first, the sleep/wake (light/dark) schedule was advanced 9 h, similar to flying east, and in the second these schedules were delayed 9 h, similar to flying west or sleeping during the day after night work. We confirmed that the free-running circadian period is shorter in African-Americans compared to European-Americans, and found differences in the magnitude and direction of circadian rhythm phase shifts which were related to the circadian period. The sleep and cognitive performance data from the first study (published in this journal) documented the impairment in both ancestry groups due to this extreme circadian misalignment. African-Americans slept less and performed slightly worse during advanced/misaligned days than European-Americans. The current analysis is of sleep and cognitive performance from the second study. Participants were 23 African-Americans and 22 European-Americans (aged 18-44 years). Following four baseline days (8 h time in bed, based on habitual sleep), the sleep/wake schedule was delayed by 9 h for three days. Sleep was monitored using actigraphy. During the last two baseline/aligned days and the first two delayed/misaligned days, beginning 2 h after waking, cognitive performance was assessed every 3 h using the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) battery. Mixed model ANOVAs assessed the effects of ancestry (African-American or European-American) and condition (baseline/aligned or delayed/misaligned) on sleep and performance. There was decreased sleep and impaired cognitive performance in both ancestry groups during the two delayed/misaligned days relative to baseline/aligned days. Sleep and cognitive performance did not differ between African-Americans and European-Americans during either baseline/aligned or delayed/misaligned days. While our previous work showed that an advance in the sleep/wake schedule impaired the sleep of African-Americans more than European-Americans, delaying the sleep/wake schedule impaired the sleep and cognitive performance of African-Americans and European-Americans equally. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#African Americans#Circadian Rhythm#Cognition#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Humans#Male#Sleep#Wakefulness'
b'Here we made an attempt to obtain partial structural information on the topology of multispan integral membrane proteins of yeast by isolating organellar membranes, removing peripheral membrane proteins at pH 11.5 and introducing chemical crosslinks between vicinal amino acids either using homo- or hetero-bifunctional crosslinkers. Proteins were digested with specific proteases and the products analysed by mass spectrometry. Dedicated software tools were used together with filtering steps optimized to remove false positive crosslinks. In proteins of known structure, crosslinks were found only between loops residing on the same side of the membrane. As may be expected, crosslinks were mainly found in very abundant proteins. Our approach seems to hold to promise to yield low resolution topological information for naturally very abundant or strongly overexpressed proteins with relatively little effort. Here, we report novel XL-MS-based topology data for 17 integral membrane proteins (Akr1p, Fks1p, Gas1p, Ggc1p, Gpt2p, Ifa38p, Ist2p, Lag1p, Pet9p, Pma1p, Por1p, Sct1p, Sec61p, Slc1p, Spf1p, Vph1p, Ybt1p). labels: #Cross-Linking Reagents#Mass Spectrometry#Membrane Proteins#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'Tmprss6-mutated mask mice display iron deficiency anemia and high expression of hepcidin. The aim of the study was to determine the effect of erythropoietin administration on proteins participating in the control of iron homeostasis in the liver and spleen in C57BL/6 and mask mice. Administration of erythropoietin for four days at 50 IU/mouse/day increased hemoglobin and hematocrit in C57BL/6 mice, no such increase was seen in mask mice. Erythropoietin administration decreased hepcidin expression in C57BL/6 mice, but not in mask mice. Erythropoietin treatment significantly increased the spleen size in both C57BL/6 and mask mice. Furthermore, erythropoietin administration increased splenic Fam132b, Fam132a and Tfr2 mRNA content. At the protein level, erythropoietin increased the amount of splenic erythroferrone and transferrin receptor 2 both in C57BL/6 and mask mice. Splenic ferroportin content was decreased in erythropoietin-treated mask mice in comparison with erythropoietin-treated C57BL/6 mice. In mask mice, the amount of liver hemojuvelin was decreased in comparison with C57BL/6 mice. The pattern of hemojuvelin cleavage was different between C57BL/6 and mask mice: In both groups, a main hemojuvelin band was detected at approximately 52 kDa; in C57BL/6 mice, a minor cleaved band was seen at 47 kDa. In mask mice, the 47 kDa band was absent, but additional minor bands were detected at approximately 45 kDa and 48 kDa. The results provide support for the interaction between TMPRSS6 and hemojuvelin in vivo; they also suggest that hemojuvelin could be cleaved by another as yet unknown protease in the absence of functional TMPRSS6. The lack of effect of erythropoietin on hepcidin expression in mask mice can not be explained by changes in erythroferrone synthesis, as splenic erythroferrone content increased after erythropoietin administration in both C57BL/6 and mask mice. labels: #Animals#Cytokines#Erythropoietin#Gene Expression Regulation#Hepcidins#Iron#Liver#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Mutant Strains#Muscle Proteins#Organ Size#RNA-Binding Proteins#Serine Endopeptidases#Spleen'
b'Presently, climate change has increased the frequency of extreme meteorological events such as tropical cyclones. In the western Pacific basin, these cyclones are called typhoons, and in this area, around Taiwan Island, their frequency has almost doubled since 2000. When approaching landmasses, typhoons have devastating effects on coastal vegetation. The increased frequency of these events has challenged the survival of coastal plant species and their posttyphoon recovery. In this study, a population of coastal gynodioecious Ficus pedunculosa var. mearnsii (Mearns fig) was surveyed for two years to investigate its recovery after Typhoon Morakot, which occurred in August 2009. Similar to all the Ficus species, the Mearns fig has an obligate mutualistic association with pollinating fig wasp species, which requires syconia (the closed Ficus inflorescence) to complete its life cycle. Moreover, male gynodioecious fig species produces both pollen and pollen vectors, whereas the female counterpart produces only seeds. The recovery of the Mearns fig was observed to be rapid, with the production of both leaves and syconia. The syconium:leaf ratio was greater for male trees than for female trees, indicating the importance of syconium production for the wasp survival. Pollinating wasps live for approximately 1 day; therefore, receptive syconia are crucial. Every typhoon season, few typhoons pass by the coasts where the Mearns fig grows, destroying all the leaves and syconia. In this paper, we highlight the potential diminution of the fig population that can lead to the extinction of the mutualistic pair of species. The effects of climate change on coastal species warrant wider surveys. labels: #Animals#Climate Change#Cyclonic Storms#Ficus#Models, Biological#Pollination#Taiwan#Wasps'
b'We developed new quantitative palaeoclimatic inference models based on the body-size structure of mammal faunas from the Old World tropics and applied them to the Somosaguas fossil site (middle Miocene, central Iberian Peninsula). Twenty-six mammal species have been described at this site, including proboscideans, ungulates, carnivores, insectivores, lagomorphs and rodents. Our analyses were based on multivariate and bivariate regression models correlating climatic data and body-size structure of 63 modern mammal assemblages from Sub-Saharan Africa and the Indian subcontinent. The results showed an average temperature of the coldest month higher than 26\xc2\xb0C for the Somosaguas fossil site, a mean annual thermal amplitude around 10\xc2\xb0C, a drought length of 10 months, and an annual total precipitation greater than 200 mm per year, which are climate conditions typical of an ecotonal zone between the savanna and desert biomes. These results are congruent with the aridity peaks described over the middle Aragonian of Spain and particularly in the local biozone E, which includes Somosaguas. The aridity increase detected in this biozone is associated with the Middle Miocene Global Cooling Event. The environment of Somosaguas around 14 Ma was similar to the current environment in the Sahel region of North Africa, the Horn of Africa, the boundary area between the Kalahari and the Namib in Southern Africa, south-central Arabia, or eastern Pakistan and northwestern India. The distribution of modern vegetation in these regions follows a complex mosaic of plant communities, dominated by scattered xerophilous shrublands, semidesert grasslands, and vegetation linked to seasonal watercourses and ponds. labels: #Animals#Body Size#Desert Climate#Fossils#Mammals#Spain'
b'Porcine circovirus-associated disease is caused by porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) infection, which targets iliac artery endothelial cells (PIECs); it leads to severe immunopathologies and is associated with major economic losses in the porcine industry. Here, we report that in vitro PCV2 infection of PIECs causes cell injury, which affects DC function as well as adaptive immunity. Specifically, PCV2 infection downregulated PIEC antigen-presenting molecule expression, upregulated cytokines involved in the immune and inflammatory response causing cell damage and repair, and altered the migratory capacity of PIECs. In addition, PCV2-infected PIECs inhibited DC maturation, enhanced the endocytic ability of DCs, and weakened the stimulatory effect of DCs on T lymphocytes. Together, these findings indicate that profound functional impairment of DCs in the presence of PCV2-infected PIECs may be a potential pathogenic mechanism associated with PCV2-induced porcine disease. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Circoviridae Infections#Circovirus#Cytokines#Dendritic Cells#Endothelial Cells#Iliac Artery#Monocytes#Swine#T-Lymphocytes'
b'Plasma levels of FGF23 are increased in patients with chronic kidney disease. Beside its role in phosphate homeostasis, iron deficiency and anemia are associated with increased FGF23 plasma levels. Recently, FGF23 plasma levels were shown to be increased in mice after treatment with hypoxia inducible factor-proline hydroxylase (HIF-PH) inhibitors which are strong inducers of erythropoietin and erythropoiesis and are known to modulate iron uptake and availability. Therefore we investigated a potential context between expression of FGF23 and stimulation of erythropoiesis using a HIF-PH inhibitor and erythropoietin in rats. FGF23 plasma levels are induced at peak levels 2 h after intravenous injection of recombinant human Erythropoietin (rhEPO). Likewise induction of endogenous EPO using a HIF-PH inhibitor (BAY 85-3934) is followed by an increase of FGF23 plasma levels. In contrast to rhEPO the HIF-PH inhibitor induces lower peak levels of FGF23 applying equivalent hematopoietic doses. Bone and bone marrow were identified as sources of EPO-induced FGF23. Immediate induction of FGF23 mRNA was also detected in EPO receptor positive murine hematopoietic BAF3 cells after treatment with rhEPO but not after treatment with the HIF-PH inhibitor. Pretreatment of mice with a neutralizing anti-EPO antibody abrogated FGF23 induction by the HIF-PH inhibitor. Thus, direct impact on FGF23 expression by HIF-PH inhibition in vivo via hypoxia mimicking and modulation of iron metabolism appears unlikely. Collectively, the findings point to an EPO dependent regulation pathway of FGF23 gene expression which might be important in the context of erythropoiesis stimulating therapies in patients with renal anemia. labels: #Animals#Enzyme Inhibitors#Erythropoietin#Fibroblast Growth Factors#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-Proline Dioxygenases#Male#Mice#RNA, Messenger#Rats'
b'There is a paucity of health policy relevant data for chronic liver disease from India, impeding formulation of an interventional strategy to address the issue. A prospective, multicentric study to delineate the etiology and clinical profile of chronic liver disease in India is reported here. A centrally coordinated and monitored web-based data repository was developed (Feb, 2010 to Jan, 2013) and analyzed. Eleven hospitals from different parts of India participated. Data were uploaded into a web based proforma and monitored by a single centre according to a standardized protocol. 1.28% (n = 266621) of all patients (n = 20701383) attending the eleven participating hospitals of India had liver disease. 65807 (24\xc2\xb768%) were diagnosed for the first time (new cases). Of these, 13014 (19\xc2\xb777%, median age 43 years, 73% males) cases of chronic liver disease were finally analyzed. 33.9% presented with decompensated cirrhosis. Alcoholism (34\xc2\xb73% of 4413) was the commonest cause of cirrhosis while Hepatitis B (33\xc2\xb73%) was predominant cause of chronic liver disease in general and non-cirrhotic chronic liver disease (40\xc2\xb78% out of 8163). There was significant interregional differences (hepatitis C in North, hepatitis B in East and South, alcohol in North-east, Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in West) in the predominant cause of chronic liver disease. Hepatitis B (46\xc2\xb78% of 438 cases) was the commonest cause of hepatocellular Cancer.11\xc2\xb77% had diabetes. Observations of our study will help guide a contextually relevant liver care policy for India and could serve as a framework for similar endeavor in other developing countries as well. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Child#Child, Preschool#Chronic Disease#Female#Health Facilities#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#India#Infant#Liver Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'IQGAPs is a family of proteins which comprises three members, in humans. The expression pattern and role of IQGAP1 has been well established in many cancers, whereas those of IQGAP2 and IQGAP3, have mostly remained unexplored. We used available large datasets, to explore the pan-cancer status of these two genes in-silico. Here we have analysed their mRNA expression and correlation with survivability in eight different cancers, including lung, breast, gastric, brain, colorectal, prostate, liver and kidney cancers and, their subtypes. The mRNA expression of IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 in individual cancers were analysed in two different publicly available databases viz. Oncomine and TCGA. The prognostic value of these genes in lung, breast and gastric cancer was analysed using Kaplan-Meier Plotter database, whereas for brain, colorectal, liver, prostate and kidney cancers, SurvExpress database was used. These results were validated by immunohistochemistry in cancer tissues (stomach, prostate, brain, colorectal). Moreover, we did IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 genomic alteration and, promoter methylation analysis using cBioportal and Wanderer web tool, respectively. Most of the cancer types (lung, breast, prostate, brain, gastric, liver, kidney and colorectal) showed increased IQGAP3 mRNA expression. In contrast, the IQGAP2 transcript levels were reduced across different cancers viz. lung, breast, gastric, liver, kidney and colorectal cancer. IQGAP2 expression correlated positively with survivability, on the contrary, IQGAP3 expression levels correlated inversely with survivability, in most of the cancers. Collectively, enhanced IQGAP3 and reduced IQGAP2 levels were frequently observed in multiple cancers with the former predicting poor survivability and the later opposite. Methylation pattern was significantly altered in most of the cancer types. We found copy no. variation and mutations in specific cancers, for IQGAP2 and IQGAP3. Our in-vivo (IHC) data confirmed the in-silico findings completely. Hence, IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 have potential to be used as prognostic markers or therapeutic targets in specific cancers. labels: #Computational Biology#DNA Methylation#Data Mining#GTPase-Activating Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Neoplasm Staging#Neoplasms#Prognosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#ras GTPase-Activating Proteins'
b'PURPOSE: To study the effect of torsional phacoemulsification energy on corneal endothelium evaluating the relationship between changes of endothelial cells and postoperative visual acuity.METHODS: This prospective clinical observational cohort study included 50 patients with cataract who underwent torsional phacoemulsification. Sequential quantitative and qualitative morphometric endothelial cell analyses of the cornea were performed four weeks preoperatively and six weeks postoperatively using noncontact specular microscopy.RESULTS: This work confirmed the strong relationship, described by a linear model (one-way ANOVA, R2 = 77.9%, P<0.0001), between the percentage of endothelial cell loss (ECL%) and the 5-score harm scale. According to the Tukey post-hoc pairwise comparison test, distinct values of ECL% are grouped in 3 subsets. The value of ECL = 10% has been identified as cut-off to discriminate patients with excellent postoperative best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA>85 letters) from those with just a good/satisfied visual outcome (BCVA \xe2\x89\xa4 85 letters). Within the 5-score harm scale, there was a significant correlation among phaco energy intraoperatively delivered and the average endothelial cell loss.CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the validity of the 5-score harm scale first proposed by Sorrentino and colleagues in 2016. This time, the method categorizes cataracts taking into account nucleus hardness and phaco cumulative dissipated energy. Predicting the harm on corneal endothelium, we can discriminate patients with excellent BCVA and with just good/satisfied BCVA. With torsional phacoemulsification with respect to longitudinal, the percentage of patients who can reach excellent BCVA is remarkably increased. labels: #Endothelium, Corneal#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phacoemulsification#Pilot Projects#Prospective Studies#Visual Acuity'
b'Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease driving inflammatory and degenerative processes that damage the central nervous system (CNS). However, it is not well understood how these events interact and evolve to evoke such a highly dynamic and heterogeneous disease. We established a hypothesis whereby the variability in the course of MS is driven by the very same pathogenic mechanisms responsible for the disease, the autoimmune attack on the CNS that leads to chronic inflammation, neuroaxonal degeneration and remyelination. We propose that each of these processes acts more or less severely and at different times in each of the clinical subgroups. To test this hypothesis, we developed a mathematical model that was constrained by experimental data (the expanded disability status scale [EDSS] time series) obtained from a retrospective longitudinal cohort of 66 MS patients with a long-term follow-up (up to 20 years). Moreover, we validated this model in a second prospective cohort of 120 MS patients with a three-year follow-up, for which EDSS data and brain volume time series were available. The clinical heterogeneity in the datasets was reduced by grouping the EDSS time series using an unsupervised clustering analysis. We found that by adjusting certain parameters, albeit within their biological range, the mathematical model reproduced the different disease courses, supporting the dynamic CNS damage hypothesis to explain MS heterogeneity. Our analysis suggests that the irreversible axon degeneration produced in the early stages of progressive MS is mainly due to the higher rate of myelinated axon degeneration, coupled to the lower capacity for remyelination. However, and in agreement with recent pathological studies, degeneration of chronically demyelinated axons is not a key feature that distinguishes this phenotype. Moreover, the model reveals that lower rates of axon degeneration and more rapid remyelination make relapsing MS more resilient than the progressive subtype. Therefore, our results support the hypothesis of a common pathogenesis for the different MS subtypes, even in the presence of genetic and environmental heterogeneity. Hence, MS can be considered as a single disease in which specific dynamics can provoke a variety of clinical outcomes in different patient groups. These results have important implications for the design of therapeutic interventions for MS at different stages of the disease. labels: #Brain#Computational Biology#Databases, Factual#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Multiple Sclerosis#Prospective Studies'
b'The effect of high pressure thermal (HPT) processing on the inactivation of spores of proteolytic type B Clostridium botulinum TMW 2.357 in four differently composed low-acid foods (green peas with ham, steamed sole, vegetable soup, braised veal) was studied in an industrially feasible pressure range and temperatures between 100 and 120\xc2\xb0C. Inactivation curves exhibited rapid inactivation during compression and decompression followed by strong tailing effects. The highest inactivation (approx. 6-log cycle reduction) was obtained in braised veal at 600 MPa and 110\xc2\xb0C after 300 s pressure-holding time. In general, inactivation curves exhibited similar negative exponential shapes, but maximum achievable inactivation levels were lower in foods with higher fat contents. At high treatment temperatures, spore inactivation was more effective at lower pressure levels (300 vs. 600 MPa), which indicates a non-linear pressure/temperature-dependence of the HPT spore inactivation efficiency. A comparison of spore inactivation levels achievable using HPT treatments versus a conventional heat sterilization treatment (121.1\xc2\xb0C, 3 min) illustrates the potential of combining high pressures and temperatures to replace conventional retorting with the possibility to reduce the process temperature or shorten the processing time. Finally, experiments using varying spore inoculation levels suggested the presence of a resistant fraction comprising approximately 0.01% of a spore population as reason for the pronounced tailing effects in survivor curves. The loss of the high resistance properties upon cultivation indicates that those differences develop during sporulation and are not linked to permanent modifications at the genetic level. labels: #Clostridium botulinum type B#Food Microbiology#Hot Temperature#Microbial Viability#Nonlinear Dynamics#Pressure#Spores, Bacterial'
b'Cuticular waxes of plant and organ surfaces play an important role in protecting plants from biotic and abiotic stress and extending the freshness, storage time and shelf life in the post-harvest agricultural products. WRI1, a transcription factor of AP2/SHEN families, had been found to trigger the related genes taking part in the biosynthesis of seed oil in many plants. But whether WRI1 is involved in the biosynthesis of the cuticular waxes on the Malus fruits surface has been unclear. We investigated the changes of wax composition and structure, the related genes and WRI1 expression on Malus asiatica Nakai and sieversii fruits with the low temperature treatments, found that low temperature induced the up-regulated expression of McWRI1, which promoted gene expression of McKCS, McLACs and McWAX in very-long-chain fatty acid biosynthesis pathway, resulting in the accumulation of alkanes component and alteration of wax structure on the fruit surface. Corresponding results were verified in McWRI1 silenced by VIGS, and WRI1 silenced down-regulated the related genes on two kinds of fruits, it caused the diversity alteration in content of some alkanes, fatty acid and ester component in two kinds of fruits. We further conducted Y1H assay to find that McWRI1 transcription factor activated the promoter of McKCS, McLAC and McWAX to regulate their expression. These results demonstrated that McWRI1 is involved in regulating the genes related synthesis of very long chain fatty acid on surface of apple fruits in storage process, providing a highlight for improvement of the modified atmosphere storage of apple fruits. labels: #Cloning, Molecular#DNA, Complementary#Fruit#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Gene Silencing#Malus#Mutation#Plant Proteins#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Stress, Physiological#Temperature#Transcription Factors#Waxes'
b"Sleep loss causes profound cognitive impairments and increases the concentrations of adenosine and adenosine A1 receptors in specific regions of the brain. Time courses for performance impairment and recovery differ between acute and chronic sleep loss, but the physiological basis for these time courses is unknown. Adenosine has been implicated in pathways that generate sleepiness and cognitive impairments, but existing mathematical models of sleep and cognitive performance do not explicitly include adenosine. Here, we developed a novel receptor-ligand model of the adenosine system to test the hypothesis that changes in both adenosine and A1 receptor concentrations can capture changes in cognitive performance during acute sleep deprivation (one prolonged wake episode), chronic sleep restriction (multiple nights with insufficient sleep), and subsequent recovery. Parameter values were estimated using biochemical data and reaction time performance on the psychomotor vigilance test (PVT). The model closely fit group-average PVT data during acute sleep deprivation, chronic sleep restriction, and recovery. We tested the model's ability to reproduce timing and duration of sleep in a separate experiment where individuals were permitted to sleep for up to 14 hours per day for 28 days. The model accurately reproduced these data, and also correctly predicted the possible emergence of a split sleep pattern (two distinct sleep episodes) under these experimental conditions. Our findings provide a physiologically plausible explanation for observed changes in cognitive performance and sleep during sleep loss and recovery, as well as a new approach for predicting sleep and cognitive performance under planned schedules. labels: #Adenosine#Attention#Brain#Cognition#Cognition Disorders#Computer Simulation#Humans#Models, Neurological#Psychomotor Performance#Reaction Time#Recovery of Function#Sleep#Sleep Deprivation"
b'Micrococcal nuclease (MNase) has been widely used for analyses of nucleosome locations in many organisms. However, due to its sequence preference, the interpretations of the positions and occupancies of nucleosomes using MNase have remained controversial. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has also been utilized for analyses of MNase-digests, but some technical biases are commonly present in the NGS experiments. Here, we established a gel-based method to map nucleosome positions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, using isolated nuclei as the substrate for the histone H4 S47C-site-directed chemical cleavage in parallel with MNase digestion. The parallel mapping allowed us to compare the chemically and enzymatically cleaved sites by indirect end-labeling and primer extension mapping, and thus we could determine the nucleosome positions and the sizes of the nucleosome-free regions (or nucleosome-depleted regions) more accurately, as compared to nucleosome mapping by MNase alone. The analysis also revealed that the structural features of the nucleosomes flanked by the nucleosome-free region were different from those within regularly arrayed nucleosomes, showing that the structures and dynamics of individual nucleosomes strongly depend on their locations. Moreover, we demonstrated that the parallel mapping results were generally consistent with the previous genome-wide chemical mapping and MNase-Seq results. Thus, the gel-based parallel mapping will be useful for the analysis of a specific locus under various conditions. labels: #Aldose-Ketose Isomerases#Chromosome Mapping#DNA, Fungal#Genetic Loci#Hydroxyl Radical#Micrococcal Nuclease#Nucleosomes#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b"When ascending (descending) a slope, positive (negative) work must be performed to overcome changes in gravitational potential energy at the center of body mass (COM). This modifies the pendulum-like behavior of walking. The aim of this study is to analyze how energy exchange and mechanical work done vary within a step across slopes and speeds. Ten subjects walked on an instrumented treadmill at different slopes (from -9\xc2\xb0 to 9\xc2\xb0), and speeds (between 0.56 and 2.22 m s-1). From the ground reaction forces, we evaluated energy of the COM, recovery (i.e. the potential-kinetic energy transduction) and pendular energy savings (i.e. the theoretical reduction in work due to this recovered energy) throughout the step. When walking uphill as compared to level, pendular energy savings increase during the first part of stance (when the COM is lifted) and decreases during the second part. Conversely in downhill walking, pendular energy savings decrease during the first part of stance and increase during the second part (when the COM is lowered). In uphill and downhill walking, the main phase of external work occurs around double support. Uphill, the positive work phase is extended during the beginning of single support to raise the body. Downhill, the negative work phase starts before double support, slowing the downward velocity of the body. Changes of the pendulum-like behavior as a function of slope can be illustrated by tilting the 'classical compass model' backwards (uphill) or forwards (downhill). labels: #Energy Metabolism#Exercise Test#Humans#Male#Walking#Young Adult"
b'The role of river discharge, wind and tide on the extension and variability of the Tagus River plume was analyzed from 2003 to 2015. This study was performed combining daily images obtained from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor located onboard the Aqua and Terra satellites. Composites were generated by averaging pixels with the same forcing conditions. River discharge shows a strong relation with the extension of the Tagus plume. The plume grows with the increasing river discharge and express a two day lag caused by the long residence time of water within the estuary. The Tagus turbid plume was found to be smaller under northerly and easterly winds, than under southerly and westerly winds. It is suggested that upwelling favoring winds provoke the offshore movement of the plume material with a rapidly decrease in turbidity values whereas downwelling favoring winds retain plume material in the north coast close to the Tagus mouth. Eastern cross-shore (oceanward) winds spread the plume seaward and to the north following the coast geometry, whereas western cross-shore (landward) winds keep the plume material in both alongshore directions occupying a large part of the area enclosed by the bay. Low tides produce larger and more turbid plumes than high tides. In terms of fortnightly periodicity, the maximum plume extension corresponding to the highest turbidity is observed during and after spring tides. Minimum plume extension associated with the lowest turbidity occurs during and after neap tides. labels: #Droughts#Environmental Monitoring#Floods#Rivers#Satellite Imagery#Spain#Wind'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although the effect of weather and air pollution on the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has been investigated, results have remained inconsistent. The present study aimed to determine the seasonality of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage occurrence and mortality.METHODS: We used the National Inpatient Sample database to evaluate the effect of meteorological factors and air pollutants on patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in Korea between 2011 and 2014. Monthly variations in SAH occurrence and mortality were analyzed using locally weighted scatter plot smoothing curves. Multivariate Poisson generalized linear regression models were used to evaluate potential independent meteorological and pollutant variables associated with SAH occurrence and mortality.RESULTS: In total, 21,407 patients who underwent clip or coil treatment owing to aneurysmal SAH in Korea from January 1, 2011, to December 31, 2014, were included. The crude incidence rate of SAH in Korea was 10.5 per 100,000 people per year. An approximately 0.5% lower risk of SAH was observed per 1\xc2\xb0C increase in mean monthly temperature (relative risk, 0.995; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.992-0.997; p<0.001), while an approximately 2.3% higher risk of SAH was observed per 1\xc2\xb0C increase in mean monthly diurnal temperature.CONCLUSIONS: We showed distinct patterns of seasonal and monthly variation in the occurrence and mortality of SAH. Our findings suggest that meteorological factors may play an important role in monthly variations in the occurrence of aneurysmal SAH. labels: #Air Pollution#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Subarachnoid Hemorrhage#Temperature#Weather'
b'Hypertension is the most prevalent risk factor for new-onset atrial fibrillation (AF). But few studies have addressed the effect of statins on the incidence of this arrhythmia in patients with hypertension. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of statins on new-onset of this arrhythmia in a hypertensive population, accounting for AF risk. Data from the Information System for the Development of Research in Primary Care was used to recruit a retrospective cohort of \xe2\x89\xa555-year-old hypertensive individuals with no ischemic vascular disease, in 2006-2007, followed up through 2015. The effect of initiating statin treatment on new-onset atrial fibrillation was assessed with Cox proportional hazards models adjusted by the propensity score of receiving statin treatment, in the overall study population and stratified by AF risk. Of 100 276 included participants, 9814 initiated statin treatment. The AF incidence per 1000 person-years (95% confidence interval) was 12.5 (12.3-12.8). Statin use associated with a significant (9%) reduction in AF incidence. Differences in absolute AF incidence were higher in the highest AF risk subgroup, and the estimated number needed to treat to avoid one case was 720. The relative effect was poor, similar across groups, and non-significant, as was the association of statins with adverse effects. We found a limited protective effect of statins over new-onset AF in this hypertensive population with no ischemic vascular disease. If there is no further indication, hypertensive patients would not benefit from statin use solely for AF primary prevention. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Hypertension#Male#Retrospective Studies#Risk'
b'The effectiveness of cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells for treatment of cancers has long been appreciated. Here, we report for the first time that CIK cells can be applied to treat allergic airway inflammation. Adopting from an established protocol with some modifications, we generated CIK cells ex vivo from mouse T cells, and examined their effectiveness in treatment of allergic airway inflammation using the ovalbumin-induced model of allergic airway inflammation. Based upon evaluation of bronchoalveolar lavage cellularity, T helper type2 cytokine levels and lung histology, all of which are important parameters for determining the severity of allergic airway inflammation, diseased mice treated with CIK cells showed significant reductions in all the parameters without any obvious adverse effects. Interestingly, the observed effects were comparable to those treated with dexamethasone. Thus, our study provides a novel application of CIK cells in treatment of allergic airway inflammation. labels: #Animals#Asthma#Cell- and Tissue-Based Therapy#Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells#Cytokines#Eosinophils#Goblet Cells#Hyperplasia#Hypersensitivity#Killer Cells, Natural#Male#Mice#Th1 Cells'
b'More than 1,500 fish species are hermaphroditic, but no hermaphroditic lineage appears to be evolutionarily ancient in fishes. Thus, whether more than one sex at a time was present during the evolutionary shift from gonochorism to hermaphroditism in fishes is an intriguing question. Ectopic oocytes were created in the ovotestes of protandrous black porgy via the withdrawal of estradiol (E2) administration. These ectopic oocytes reprogrammed the surrounding cells, which changed from Sertoli cells to follicle-like cells. We observed that gdf9 and bmp15 expression was localized in the primary oocytes and gradually decreased after oocytes entered a secondary oocyte stage. Robust expression of gdf9 and bmp15 in ectopic oocytes was associated with the surrounding Sertoli cells. However, blocking Cyp19a1a activity and increasing androgen levels did not stimulate the expression of gdf9 and bmp15. Thus, the robust gdf9 and bmp15 expression was not related to the inappropriate male microenvironment. Furthermore, in vitro data demonstrated that gdf9 and bmp15 were not downstream genes of Figla signaling. Therefore, our results suggest that there are two independent mechanisms, a Figla-dependent pathway and a Figla-independent pathway, by which oocyte-surrounding cells are altered from a male somatic fate to a female somatic fate. This functional switch might clarify how oocytes created an appropriate microenvironment during the transition from the ancient gonochorism to the present hermaphroditism. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Bone Morphogenetic Protein 15#Estradiol#Female#Fish Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation#Growth Differentiation Factor 9#Hermaphroditic Organisms#Male#Oocytes#Ovary#Perciformes#Sertoli Cells#Signal Transduction#Testis#Vitellogenesis'
b"Serine-proteases are important players in the pathogenesis of asthma, promoting inflammation and tissue remodeling. It's also known that many serine protease inhibitors display immunomodulatory properties. TgPI-1 is a Toxoplasma gondii protein that exhibits broad spectrum inhibitory activity against serine proteases. In view of the increased prevalence of atopic disorders and the need to develop new treatment strategies we sought to investigate the potential of TgPI-1 for treating respiratory allergies. For this purpose, we developed a therapeutic experimental model. BALB/c mice were rendered allergic by intraperitoneal ovalbumin-alum sensitization and airway-challenged. Once the asthmatic phenotype was achieved, mice were intranasally treated with rTgPI-1 alone or with a mixture of rTgPI-1 and ovalbumin (OVA). A week later mice were given a secondary aerosol challenge. Treatment with rTgPI-1 alone or co-administered with OVA diminished bronchoalveolar eosinophilia, mucus production and peribronchial lung infiltration. This effect was accompanied by a lung resistance reduction of 26.3% and 50.3% respectively. Both treatments resulted in the production of lower levels of IL-4, IL-5, IFN-\xce\xb3 and regulatory IL-10 by thoracic lymph node cells stimulated with OVA. Interestingly, significant decreases in OVA specific IgE and T cell proliferation, and increases in FoxP3+ T cells at local and systemic levels were only detected when the inhibitor was administered along with OVA. These results show that both rTgPI-1 treatments reduced asthma hallmarks. However, co-administration of the inhibitor with the allergen was more effective. Hence, rTgPI-1 emerges as a novel adjuvant candidate for asthma treatment. labels: #Allergens#Animals#Antibodies, Protozoan#Antibody Specificity#Asthma#Cell Proliferation#Cytokines#Drug Interactions#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Ovalbumin#Recombinant Proteins#Serine Proteinase Inhibitors#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Toxoplasma"
b'Acute inflammation is an immediate response to infection and injury characterised by the influx of granulocytes followed by phagocytosing mononuclear phagocytes. Provided the antigen is cleared and the immune system of the host is fully functional, the acute inflammatory response will resolve. Until now it is considered that resolution then leads back to homeostasis, the physiological state tissues experienced before inflammation occurred. Using a human model of acute inflammation driven by intradermal UV killed Escherichia coli, we found that bacteria and granulocyte clearance as well as pro-inflammatory cytokine catabolism occurred by 72h. However, following a lag phase of about 4 days there was an increase in numbers of memory T cells and CD163+ macrophage at the post-resolution site up to day 17 as well as increased biosynthesis of cyclooxygenase-derived prostanoids and DHA-derived D series resolvins. Inhibiting post-resolution prostanoids using naproxen showed that numbers of tissue memory CD4 cells were under the endogenous control of PGE2, which exerts its suppressive effects on T cell proliferation via the EP4 receptor. In addition, we re-challenged the post-resolution site with a second injection of E. coli, which when compared to saline controls resulted in primarily a macrophage-driven response with comparatively fewer PMNs; the macrophage-dominated response was reversed by cyclooxygenase inhibition. Re-challenge experiments were also carried out in mice where we obtained similar results as in humans. Therefore, we report that acute inflammatory responses in both humans and rodents do not revert back to homeostasis, but trigger a hitherto unappreciated sequence of immunological events that dictate subsequent immune response to infection. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Animals#Antigens, CD#Antigens, Differentiation, Myelomonocytic#Cell Count#Cell Proliferation#Dinoprostone#Escherichia coli#Female#Humans#Inflammation#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Microbial Viability#Middle Aged#Receptors, Cell Surface#T-Lymphocytes#Ultraviolet Rays#Young Adult'
b"Copper, as the third most abundant transition metal ions of human, plays an essential role in the redox reaction, signal transduction, hematopoiesis, and other physiological processes. Abnormal content of copper ions in the body will cause some diseases such as anemia, coronary heart disease, Menkes' syndrome. In this article, a new fluorescence probe L for Cu2+ was designed and synthetized by using 4-bromo-1,8 naphthalene anhydride and 2-thiophene formaldehyde as raw materials. Fluorescent probe L itself exhibited strong fluorescence, upon the addition of Cu2+ ions, the fluorescence was quenched. The fluorescent detection limit for Cu2+ ions was determined to be 1.8 \xce\xbcM based on a 3\xce\xb4/S method. UV-vis absorption and fluorescence spectra indicated that probe L showed good selectivity and sensitivity for Cu2+, and this selectivity was not interfered by other metal ions and anions. Further cell fluorescence imaging experiments indicated that the probe L had potential to be used to examine copper ions in vivo. labels: #Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Copper#Drug Design#Fluorescent Dyes#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Limit of Detection#Naphthalenes"
b"OBJECTIVE: To examine trends in patient experience and consistency between hospital trusts and settings.METHODS: Observational study of publicly available patient experience surveys of three hospital settings (inpatients (IP), accident and emergency (A&E) and outpatients (OP)) of 130 acute NHS hospital trusts in England between 2004/05 and 2014/15.RESULTS: Overall patient experience has been good, showing modest improvements over time across the three hospital settings. Individual questions with the biggest improvement across all three settings are cleanliness (IP: +7.1, A&E: +6.5, OP: +4.7) and information about danger signals (IP: +3.8, A&E: +3.9, OP: +4.0). Trust performance has been consistent over time: 71.5% of trusts ranked in the same cluster for more than five years. There is some consistency across settings, especially between outpatients and inpatients. The lowest-scoring questions, regarding information at discharge, are the same in all years and all settings.CONCLUSIONS: The greatest improvement across all three settings has been for cleanliness, which has seen national policies and targets. Information about danger signals and medication side-effects showed least consistency across settings and scores have remained low over time, despite information about danger signals showing a big increase in score. Patient experience of aspects of access and waiting have declined, as has experience of discharge delay, likely reflecting known increases in pressure on England's NHS. labels: #England#Hospitals#Humans#National Health Programs#Patient Satisfaction#Trust"
b'In standard cage (SC) raised mice, experience-dependent ocular dominance (OD) plasticity in the primary visual cortex (V1) rapidly declines with age: in postnatal day 25-35 (critical period) mice, 4 days of monocular deprivation (MD) are sufficient to induce OD-shifts towards the open eye; thereafter, 7 days of MD are needed. Beyond postnatal day 110, even 14 days of MD failed to induce OD-plasticity in mouse V1. In contrast, mice raised in a so-called "enriched environment" (EE), exhibit lifelong OD-plasticity. EE-mice have more voluntary physical exercise (running wheels), and experience more social interactions (bigger housing groups) and more cognitive stimulation (regularly changed labyrinths or toys). Whether experience-dependent shifts of V1-activation happen faster in EE-mice and how long the plasticity promoting effect would persist after transferring EE-mice back to SCs has not yet been investigated. To this end, we used intrinsic signal optical imaging to visualize V1-activation i) before and after MD in EE-mice of different age groups (from 1-9 months), and ii) after transferring mice back to SCs after postnatal day 130. Already after 2 days of MD, and thus much faster than in SC-mice, EE-mice of all tested age groups displayed a significant OD-shift towards the open eye. Transfer of EE-mice to SCs immediately abolished OD-plasticity: already after 1 week of SC-housing and MD, OD-shifts could no longer be visualized. In an attempt to rescue abolished OD-plasticity of these mice, we either administered the anti-depressant fluoxetine (in drinking water) or supplied a running wheel in the SCs. OD-plasticity was only rescued for the running wheel- mice. Altogether our results show that raising mice in less deprived environments like large EE-cages strongly accelerates experience-dependent changes in V1-activation compared to the impoverished SC-raising. Furthermore, preventing voluntary physical exercise of EE-mice in adulthood immediately precludes OD-shifts in V1. labels: #Aging#Animal Husbandry#Animals#Dominance, Ocular#Environment#Female#Fluoxetine#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Neuronal Plasticity#Serotonin Uptake Inhibitors#Time Factors#Visual Cortex'
b"BACKGROUND: The American Heart Association released 7 modifiable factors, Life's Simple 7, that are expected to improve cardiovascular health (CVH), but their contributions to ischemic heart disease (IHD) in the general Australians are not well clarified.METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study based on 7499 adults (\xe2\x89\xa518 years) who have tested for total cholesterol and fasting plasma glucose as part of 2011-12 Australian Health Survey. Poisson regression analyses were used to estimate the incidence rate ratios and population attributable fractions of those factors to IHD prevalence. Participants were classified into three CVH groups based on the number of ideal metrics: inadequate (0-2), average (3-4), and optimal (5-7). Logistic regression analyses were performed to elucidate the relationship between overall CVH and IHD prevalence.RESULTS: 357 participants were self-reported having IHD condition, with a weighted prevalence of 3.3%. Physical inactivity, elevated body mass index (BMI) and total cholesterol (TC) were independently associated with IHD. Compared to the inadequate category, participants in the optimal and average categories have a 78% [adjusted odds ratio (OR), 0.22; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.03-1.96] and a 45% (adjusted OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.39-0.77) lower IHD risk. One more optimal metric was associated with an 18% lower IHD risk (adjusted OR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.71-0.93).CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that physical inactivity, raised BMI and elevated TC were independent modifiable risk factors of IHD in the general Australian population. The improvement of overall CVH may also reduce IHD risk among the general Australian adults. labels: #Adult#Australia#Coronary Artery Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors"
b"Academic dishonesty has been and continues to be a major problem in America's schools and universities. Such dishonesty is especially important in high schools, where grades earned directly impact the academic careers of students for many years to come. The rising pressure to get the best grades in school, get into the best college, and land the best paying job is a cycle that has made academic dishonesty increase exponentially. Thus, finding the widespread roots of cheating is more important now than ever. In this study, we focus on how societal norms and interactions with peers influence lying about scores in order to obtain a benefit in a high school population. We show that (1) the societal norms that go hand in hand with test-taking in school, as administered by a teacher, significantly dampen small-scale dishonesty, perhaps suggesting that context-dependent rewards offset cheating; (2) providing reminders of societal norms via pre-reported average scores leads to more truthful self-reporting of honesty; (3) the matrix search task was shown to not depend on class difficulty, confirming its effectiveness as an appropriate method for this study; (4) males seem to cheat more than females; and (5) teenagers are more dishonest earlier in the day. We suggest that students understand that cheating is wrong, an idea backed up by the literature, and that an environment which clearly does not condone dishonesty helps dampen widespread cheating in certain instances. This dampening effect seems to be dependent on the reward that students thought they would get for exaggerating their performance. labels: #Adult#Deception#Female#Humans#Male#Reward#United States#Universities#Young Adult"
b"Almost 1600 individuals from the Polish population were recruited to this study. Among them 319 were fertile couples, 289 were recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) couples, and 131 were in the group of recurrent implantation failure (RIF) following in vitro fertilization. The aim of this study was to evaluate the MTHFR c.c.677 C>T and c.c.1298 A>C polymorphisms' association with RSA and RIF. We used PCR-RFLP with HinfI (677 C>T) and MboII (1298 A>C) digestion. We observed a protective effect of the female AC genotype (OR = 0.64, p = 0.01) and the C allele (AC+CC genotypes; OR = 0.65, p = 0.009) against RSA. Moreover, 1298 AA/677 CT women were more frequent in RSA (31.14%) and RIF (25.20%) groups in comparison to fertile women (22.88%), although this difference was significant only in the case of RSA (p = 0.022, OR = 1.52). Male combined genotype analysis revealed no association with reproductive failure of their partners. Nevertheless, the female/male combination AA/AC of the 1298 polymorphism was more frequent in RSA couples (p = 0.049, OR = 1.49). However, the significant results became insignificant after Bonferroni correction. In addition, analysis of haplotypes showed significantly higher frequency of the C/C haplotype (1298 C/677 C) in the female control group than in the female RSA group (p = 0.03, OR = 0.77). Moreover, the association between elevated homocysteine (Hcy) level in plasma of RSA and RIF women and MTHFR polymorphisms was investigated but did not reveal significant differences. In conclusion, for clinical practice, it is better to check the homocysteine level in plasma and, if the Hcy level is increased, to recommend patients to take folic acid supplements rather than undergo screening of MTHFR for 1298 A>C and 677 C>T polymorphisms. labels: #Abortion, Habitual#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (NADPH2)#Middle Aged#Poland#Polymorphism, Genetic#Pregnancy"
b'BACKGROUND: According to the Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey 2014, only approximately 37 percent of women deliver in a health facility. Among the eight administrative divisions of Bangladesh, the facility delivery rate is lowest in the Sylhet division (22.6 percent) where we assessed the effect of integrated supply- and demand-side interventions on the facility-based delivery rate.METHODS: Population-based cohort data of pregnant women from an ongoing maternal and newborn health improvement study being conducted in a population of ~120,000 in Sylhet district were used. The study required collection and processing of biological samples immediately after delivery. Therefore, the project assembled various strategies to increase institutional delivery rates. The supply-side intervention included capacity expansion of the health facilities through service provider refresher training, 24/7 service coverage, additions of drugs and supplies, and incentives to the providers. The demand-side component involved financial incentives to cover expenses, a provision of emergency transport, and referral support to a tertiary-level hospital. We conducted a before-and-after observational study to assess the impact of the intervention in a total of 1,861 deliveries between December 2014 and November 2016.RESULTS: Overall, implementation of the intervention package was associated with 52.6 percentage point increase in the proportions of facility-based deliveries from a baseline rate of 25.0 percent to 77.6 percent in 24 months. We observed lower rates of institutional deliveries when only supply-side interventions were implemented. The proportion rose to 47.1 percent and continued increasing when the project emphasized addressing the financial barriers to accessing obstetric care in a health facility.CONCLUSIONS: An integrated supply- and demand-side intervention was associated with a substantial increase in institutional delivery. The package can be tailored to identify which combination of interventions may produce the optimum result and be scaled. Rigorous implementation research studies are needed to draw confident conclusions and to provide information about the costs, feasibility for scale-up and sustainability. labels: #Bangladesh#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Maternal Health Services#Pregnancy#Rural Health Services'
b'In order to study the long-term stability of fin whale (Balaenoptera physalus) singing behavior, the frequency and inter-pulse interval of fin whale 20 Hz vocalizations were observed over 10 years from 2003-2013 from bottom mounted hydrophones and seismometers in the northeast Pacific Ocean. The instrument locations extended from 40\xc2\xb0N to 48\xc2\xb0N and 130\xc2\xb0W to 125\xc2\xb0W with water depths ranging from 1500-4000 m. The inter-pulse interval (IPI) of fin whale song sequences was observed to increase at a rate of 0.54 seconds/year over the decade of observation. During the same time period, peak frequency decreased at a rate of 0.17 Hz/year. Two primary call patterns were observed. During the earlier years, the more commonly observed pattern had a single frequency and single IPI. In later years, a doublet pattern emerged, with two dominant frequencies and IPIs. Many call sequences in the intervening years appeared to represent a transitional state between the two patterns. The overall trend was consistent across the entire geographical span, although some regional differences exist. Understanding changes in acoustic behavior over long time periods is needed to help establish whether acoustic characteristics can be used to help determine population identity in a widely distributed, difficult to study species such as the fin whale. labels: #Animals#Fin Whale#Pacific Ocean#Sound Spectrography#Vocalization, Animal'
b'AIM: To describe the prevalence of Peripheral Artery Disease (PAD) in a random population sample and to evaluate its relationship with Mediterranean diet and with other potential cardiovascular risk factors such as serum uric acid and pulse pressure in individuals ranged 45 to 74 years.METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis of 1568 subjects (mean age 6.5 years, 43% males), randomly selected from the population. A fasting blood sample was obtained to determine glucose, lipids, and HbA1C levels. An oral glucose tolerance test was performed in non-diabetic subjects. PAD was evaluated by ankle-brachial index and/or having a prior diagnosis.RESULTS: PAD prevalence was 3.81% (95% CI, 2.97-4.87) for all participants. In men, PAD prevalence was significantly higher than in women [5.17% (95% CI, 3.74-7.11) vs. 2.78% (95% CI, 1.89-4.07); p = 0.014]. Serum uric acid in the upper quartile was associated with the highest odds ratio (OR) of PAD (for uric acid>6.1 mg/dl, OR = 4.31; 95% CI, 1.49-12.44). The remaining variables more strongly associated with PAD were: Heart rate>90 bpm (OR = 4.16; 95%CI, 1.62-10.65), pulse pressure in the upper quartile (\xe2\x89\xa5 54 mmHg) (OR = 3.82; 95%CI, 1.50-9.71), adherence to Mediterranean diet (OR = 2.73; 95% CI, 1.48-5.04), and former smoker status (OR = 2.04; 95%CI, 1.00-4.16).CONCLUSIONS: Our results show the existence of a low prevalence of peripheral artery disease in a population aged 45-74 years. Serum uric acid, pulse pressure and heart rate>90 bpm were strongly associated with peripheral artery disease. The direct association between Mediterranean diet and peripheral artery disease that we have found should be evaluated through a follow-up study under clinical practice conditions. labels: #Aged#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Peripheral Arterial Disease#Prediabetic State'
b'The purpose of this study is to compare the clinicopathological characteristics and outcomes of esophageal foreign body (FB) ingestion in adults between weekdays and holidays. This is a retrospective study including 1058 patients with esophageal FB ingestion from 2012 to 2016. Patient characteristics, the types and locations of FB, and clinical outcomes were compared between patients on weekdays and holidays. Furthermore, independent risk factors of complication on weekdays and holidays respectively were evaluated. The locations of FB, underlying diseases, and complications significantly differed between weekdays and holidays groups, while no difference was found in the types of FB. Patients got higher percentage of erosion complication on holidays than that on weekdays (60.8% vs 47.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that jujube shell was a significant predictor of complication on weekdays (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). However, complication was significantly associated with nonfood bolus FB ingestion on holidays (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Our data suggest that there were different clinicopathological characteristics of FB ingestion between weekdays and holidays, and more patients got complications on holidays. On holidays, a latex protector hood or an overtube should be applied to patients who swallowed nonfood bolus in order to reduce esophageal mucosal damage. labels: #Adult#Eating#Esophagus#Female#Foreign Bodies#Holidays#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Pancreatic hepatoid carcinoma (PHC) is a rare form of pancreatic malignancy mimicking hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in morphology, immunohistochemistry, and behavior. PHC usually has an aggressive clinical course and poor prognosis. Effective treatment strategies are lacking due to poor understanding and extreme rarity of such kind of malignancy. PATIENT CONCERNS:: we present the case of a 75-year-old man with tumors in the liver and the tail of pancreas that were detected in a routine health check-up.DIAGNOSES: Pancreatic hepatoid carcinoma with liver metastasis INTERVENTIONS:: The patient was treated by neoadjuvant modified-FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy and subsequent resection of both the primary pancreatic tumor and the sole liver metastasis.OUTCOMES: Pathology findings confirmed complete pathological response of the liver metastatic tumor and partial response of the primary pancreatic tumor to neoadjuvant mFOLFIRINOX. Adjuvant chemotherapy with mFOLFIRINOX was given and until now the patient has a progression-free survival of 13 months after diagnosis.LESSONS: PHC are often associated with early liver metastasis and a poor prognosis, surgical resection combined with neoadjuvant and adjuvant FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy is proved to be efficient in such kind of malignancy, even with liver metastasis. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasms, Multiple Primary#Pancreatectomy#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Splenectomy#Treatment Outcome'
b'The risk calculator of the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) has been shown to be useful in predicting postoperative complications. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the predictive value of the ACS-NSQIP calculator in geriatric patients undergoing lumbar surgery.A total of 242 geriatric patients who underwent lumbar surgery between January 2014 and December 2016 were included. Preoperative clinical information was retrospectively reviewed and entered into the ACS-NSQIP calculator. The predictive value of the ACS-NSQIP model was assessed using the Hosmer-Lemeshow test, Brier score (B), and receiver operating characteristics (ROC, also referred C-statistic) curve analysis. Additional risk factors were calculated as surgeon-adjusted risk including previous cardiac event and cerebrovascular disease.Preoperative risk factors including age (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), functional independence (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), American Society of Anesthesiologists class (ASA class, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), dyspnea (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), dialysis (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.049), previous cardiac event (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and history of cerebrovascular disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0) were significantly associated with a greater incidence of postoperative complications. Observed and predicted incidence of postoperative complications was 43.8% and 13.7% (\xc2\xb15.9%) (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01), respectively. The Hosmer-Lemeshow test demonstrated adequate predictive accuracy of the ACS-NSQIP model for all complications. However, Brier score showed that the ACS-NSQIP model could not accurately predict risk of all (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.321) or serious (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.241) complications, although it accurately predicted the risk of death (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.0072); this was supported by ROC curve analysis. The ROC curve also showed that the model had high sensitivity and specificity for predicting renal failure and readmission.The ACS-NSQIP surgical risk calculator is not an accurate tool for the prediction of postoperative complications in geriatric Chinese patients undergoing lumbar surgery. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Geriatric Assessment#Humans#Incidence#Laminectomy#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity#Spinal Stenosis'
b'RATIONALE: Hypoglycemic encephalopathy is a metabolic encephalopathy. Clinical risk is mixed with acute cerebrovascular disease, so it is critical to identify and make the correct diagnosis of the disease as early as possible.PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we report a case of a 51-year-old male patient with hypoglycemic encephalopathy, who presented confusion and unconsciousness for 1 day.DIAGNOSES: In addition to blood-related indicators and medical histories, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), especially diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), can be valuable to the diagnosis of hypoglycemic encephalopathy, which showed diffuse high-signal intensity in the cerebral cortex, and also the hippocampus, head of the caudate nucleus, the lentiform nucleus, and corpus callosum.INTERVENTIONS: Intravenous glucose injection and drip was performed repeatedly. The blood glucose levels were gradually corrected, and the resulting blood glucose was 6.5\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L.OUTCOMES: The prognosis depends on the degree of hypoglycemia, duration, and condition of the organism. Due to the long duration of hypoglycemia, unfortunately, the patient died.LESSONS: It is critical to diagnose hypoglycemic encephalopathy as early as possible. MRI reveals diffuse abnormal intensity in the cortex and basal ganglia region. DWI using high b values provides important information for diagnosis. labels: #Brain Diseases, Metabolic#Cerebral Cortex#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Fatal Outcome#Hippocampus#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Male#Middle Aged'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Diarrhea is a common complication of enteral nutrition (EN), which affects recovery and prolongs the length of hospital stay (LOHS). To investigate the effect of fiber and probiotics in reducing diarrhea associated with EN in postoperative patients with gastric cancer (GC), the authors designed this prospective randomized-controlled trial.METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: This study included 120 patients with GC, and the patients were classified into 3 groups via random picking of envelopes: fiber-free nutrition formula (FF group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40), fiber-enriched nutrition formula (FE group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40), and fiber- and probiotic-enriched nutrition formula (FEP group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40). All patients were given EN formulas for 7 consecutive days after surgery.RESULTS: The number of diarrhea cases was higher in the FF group than in the FE group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.007). The FEP group had a lower number of diarrhea cases compared with the FE group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). Patients in the FE group had a significantly shorter first flatus time than the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002). However, no significant difference was observed between the FE group and FEP group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.30). Intestinal disorders were similar between the FE group and FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.38). The FEP group had a lower number of intestinal disorder cases than the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). LOHS in the FE and FEP groups was shorter than that in the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). However, no significant difference was observed between the FE and FEP groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.28). In addition, no significant difference was observed between the 3 groups in terms of total lymphocyte count, albumin, prealbumin, and transferrin levels on day 7 of enteral feeding.CONCLUSIONS: The combination of fiber and probiotics was significantly effective in treating diarrhea that is associated with EN in postoperative patients with GC. labels: #Aged#Diarrhea#Dietary Fiber#Enteral Nutrition#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Period#Probiotics#Prospective Studies#Stomach Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b"Local anesthesia is routinely recommended for percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic discectomy (PTED). However, the intense intraoperative pain remains a serious problem. The purpose of the current study is to find a safe and effective method to alleviate the intense pain during PTED for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) under local anesthesia.This study retrospectively analyzed 63 LDH patients who accepted PTED under local anesthesia. Thirty-one patients received intramuscular injection of morphine before PTED, while the other 32 were not. The 10 points visual analogue scale (VAS) was used to assess the patients' maximum leg and back pain. Patients were asked to grade their experiences of surgery and anesthesia on a 5-point Likert-type scale after the surgery. Modified Mac Nab Criteria were used to evaluate the surgical outcomes after 3-month follow-up.The intraoperative VAS scores of patients who accepted preoperative intervention decreased significantly. The postoperative VAS scores of both groups showed no significance. Patients who received preoperative intervention reported a higher subjective satisfaction rate with the surgery experience. According to the Modified Mac Nab criteria, the surgical outcomes of both groups were similar through the 3-month follow-up. After injection of morphine, 4 patients complained nausea and 2 patients experienced vomiting.Preoperative intramuscular injection of morphine could reduce the patients' pain during the PTED surgery and improve the patients' satisfaction without affecting the surgical outcome. Except for a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting, this method is relatively safe and convenient. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthesia, Local#Diskectomy, Percutaneous#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Injections, Intramuscular#Intervertebral Disc Displacement#Intraoperative Complications#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Morphine#Pain#Patient Satisfaction#Preoperative Care#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Visual Analog Scale#Young Adult"
b'In acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE), right ventricular pressure overload impairs right-sided cardiac conduction and repolarization. We hypothesized that if heterogeneity of repolarization between right and left ventricles occurs in acute PTE, there would be the difference of repolarization between them. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the diagnostic value of corrected QT interval (QTc) difference between leads V1 and V6 (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) in patients with acute PTE.A total of 89 patients with suspected acute PTE who underwent computed tomographic angiography (CTA) were enrolled from January to December 2015. PTE was identified by CTA. We compared electrocardiographic (ECG) parameters, especially QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) between patients with PTE and those without PTE.Acute PTE was finally diagnosed in 45 patients. Clinical situations including the chief complaint were not different between PTE and non-PTE groups. S1Q3T3, a traditional ECG marker, had no diagnostic value for acute PTE. Patients with PTE had a significantly longer mean QTc in V1 (454.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a44.3 vs 417.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a31.3\xe2\x80\x8ams, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and larger QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) (34.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a30.5 vs -12.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.6\xe2\x80\x8ams, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) than non-PTE controls. QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) was negative in all patients without PTE. PTE patients had a higher prevalence of T wave inversion in leads III (51.1% vs 29.5%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038) and V1 (82.2% vs 38.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). A QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) of \xe2\x89\xa520\xe2\x80\x8ams identified PTE with 82.2% sensitivity, 100.0% specificity, and 100.0% positive predictive value.QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) had an excellent diagnostic value for differentiating patients with and without acute PTE. labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Pulmonary Embolism#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'RATIONALE: The first metatarsophalangeal joint (MTP1) is the most frequent site of gouty tophi. We report an unusual case with a giant skin-perforating tophi. This is the first case of gouty tophi at MTP1 which accepts surgical debulking and amputation.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 42-year-old man presented with a seven-year history of gout and a giant tophi at MTP1. The patient was referred to hospital due to persistent pain and ulcerations on the surface of the left MTP1. This rounded, giant, swelling, tophaceous tophi severely interfered with his normal walking.DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with gouty arthritis seven years ago, and did not receive regular anti-gout treatments.OUTCOMES: Biochemical examination showed he had raised serum uric acid (SUA, 11.92\xe2\x80\x8amg/dl) and creatinine (258\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcmol/l). There was a severe joint destruction of MTP1 by X-ray examination. We controlled the skin infection by sulbenicillin. He was given febuxostat to reduce SUA. After 3 months of treatment, SUA fell to 6.8\xe2\x80\x8amg/dl. Then we performed surgical debulking of MTP1 and amputation of hallux. Surgical operations obviously relieved the pain, and improved the function of his left foot. The visual closure after amputation was good.CONCLUSION: Surgical amputation of the gout lesion at MTP1 maximized the function, and reduced the pain of this patient. In the case of giant tophi with severe gouty arthritis or skin infections, surgical decisions need to weigh gains and losses carefully. labels: #Adult#Amputation#Arthritis, Gouty#Creatinine#Humans#Male#Metatarsophalangeal Joint#Uric Acid'
b"This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of 3 surgical procedures for Spontaneous Supratentorial Intracerebral Hemorrhage (SICH).A total of 63 patients with SICH were randomized into 3 groups. Group A (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a21) underwent craniotomy surgery, group B (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22) underwent burr hole, urokinase infusion and catheter drainage, and group C (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a20) underwent neuroendoscopic surgery. The hematoma evacuation rate of the operation was analyzed by 3D Slice software and the average surgery time, visualization during operation, decompressive effect, mortality, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) improvement, complications include rebleeding, pneumonia, intracranial infection were also compared among 3 groups.All procedures were successfully completed and the hematoma evacuation rate was significant differences among 3 groups which were 79.8%, 43.1%, 89.3% respectively (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01), and group C was the highest group. Group B was smallest traumatic one and shared the shortest operation time, but for the lack of hemostasis, it also the highest rebleeding group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). Although there were different in complications, but there was no significant in pneumonia, intracranial infection, GCS improvement and mortality rate.All these 3 methods had its own advantages and shortcomings, and every approach had its indications for SICH. Although for neuroendoscopic technical's minimal invasive, direct vision, effectively hematoma evacuation rate, and the relatively optimistic result, it might be a more promising approach for SICH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cerebral Hemorrhage#Craniotomy#Drainage#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hematoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroendoscopy#Operative Time#Random Allocation#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'The predictive factors associated with neck pain remain unclear. We conducted a cross-sectional study to assess predictive factors, especially Modic changes (MCs), associated with the intensity and duration of neck pain in patients with cervical disc degenerative disease.We retrospectively reviewed patients in our hospital from January 2013 to December 2016. Severe neck pain (SNP) and persistent neck pain (PNP) were the 2 main outcomes, and were assessed based on the numerical rating scale (NRS). Basic data, and also imaging data, were collected and analyzed as potential predictive factors. Univariate analysis and multiple logistic regression analysis were performed to assess the predictive factors for neck pain.In all, 381 patients (193 males and 188 females) with cervical degenerative disease were included in our study. The number of patients with SNP and PNP were 94 (24.67%) and 109 (28.61%), respectively. The NRS of neck pain in patients with type 1 MCs was significantly higher than type 2 MCs (4.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.9 vs 3.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.1; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004). The multivariate logistic analysis showed that kyphosis curvature (odds ratio [OR] 1.082, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.044-1.112), spondylolisthesis (OR 1.339, 95% CI 1.226-1.462), and annular tear (OR 1.188, 95% CI 1.021-1.382) were factors associated with SNP, whereas kyphosis curvature (OR 1.568, 95% CI 1.022-2.394), spondylolisthesis (OR 1.486, 95% CI 1.082-2.041), and MCs (OR 1.152, 95% CI 1.074-1.234) were associated with PNP.We concluded that kyphosis curvature, spondylolisthesis, and annular tear are associated with SNP, whereas kyphosis curvature, spondylolisthesis, and MCs are associated with PNP. This study supports the view that MCs can lead to a long duration of neck pain. labels: #Adult#Biomechanical Phenomena#Cervical Vertebrae#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Intervertebral Disc Degeneration#Kyphosis#Logistic Models#Lordosis#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neck Pain#Pain Measurement#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Spinal Diseases#Spondylolisthesis'
b"RATIONALE: Glucagonoma and pancreatic serous oligocystic adenoma (SOA) are rare neuroendocrine and exocrine tumors of the pancreas, respectively. The coexistence of glucagonoma syndrome (GS) and SOA is a rare clinical condition and has not yet been reported. Additionally, necrolytic migratory erythema (NME), a hallmark clinical sign of GS, is often misdiagnosed as other skin lesions by clinicians due to their lack of related knowledge, which delays diagnosis of GS and thus exacerbates the prognosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 50-year-old male patient was admitted to our department because he presented with diabetes mellitus and a recurrent ulcerated skin rash. Prior to the accurate diagnosis, the skin manifestation was considered to be diabetic dermopathy.DIAGNOSES: The patient's fasting serum glucagon level was up to 871.5\xe2\x80\x8apg/mL. A biopsy of the pancreatic tumor revealed a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, and immunoperoxidase staining revealed glucagon-positive cells. In addition, the histological examination of the pancreatic cystic lesions showed typical features of SOA.INTERVENTIONS: The patient received a pancreaticoduodenal resection and radiofrequency ablation for the hepatic nodular lesion.OUTCOMES: One week after surgery, the glucagon concentration decreased to near normal levels. The cutaneous lesions spontaneously resolved within 4 weeks after surgery.LESSONS: Because almost all glucagonomas are malignant or have malignant potential, their early recognition and correct diagnosis are very important for a better prognosis, especially in cases with NME as the only manifestation during the development of glucagonomas. It is therefore imperative that clinicians recognize NME early to make an accurate diagnosis. labels: #Cystadenoma, Serous#Diabetes Complications#Diabetes Mellitus#Exanthema#Glucagonoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Necrolytic Migratory Erythema#Pancreatic Neoplasms"
b'BACKGROUND: Stunting is the most prevalent manifestation of childhood malnutrition. To characterize factors that contribute to stunting in resource-poor settings, we studied a priori selected biological and social factors collected longitudinally in a cohort of newborns.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We enrolled 1,868 children across 7 resource-poor settings in Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Nepal, Peru, South Africa, and Tanzania shortly after birth and followed them for 24 months between 2 November 2009 and 28 February 2014. We collected longitudinal anthropometry, sociodemographic factors, maternal-reported illnesses, and antibiotic use; child feeding practices; dietary intake starting at 9 months; and longitudinal blood, urine, and stool samples to investigate non-diarrheal enteropathogens, micronutrients, gut inflammation and permeability, and systemic inflammation. We categorized length-for-age Z-scores into 3 groups (not stunted, \xe2\x89\xa5-1; at risk,<-1 to -2; and stunted,<-2), and used multivariable ordinal logistic regression to model the cumulative odds of being in a lower length-for-age category (at risk or stunted). A total of 1,197 children with complete longitudinal data were available for analysis. The prevalence of having a length-for-age Z-score below -1 increased from 43% (range 37%-47% across sites) shortly after birth (mean 7.7 days post-delivery, range 0 to 17 days) to 74% (16%-96%) at 24 months. The prevalence of stunting increased 3-fold during this same time period. Factors that contributed to the odds of being in a lower length-for-age category at 24 months were lower enrollment weight-for-age (interquartile cumulative odds ratio = 1.82, 95% CI 1.49-2.23), shorter maternal height (2.38, 1.89-3.01), higher number of enteropathogens in non-diarrheal stools (1.36, 1.07-1.73), lower socioeconomic status (1.75, 1.20-2.55), and lower percent of energy from protein (1.39, 1.13-1.72). Site-specific analyses suggest that reported associations were similar across settings. While loss to follow-up and missing data are inevitable, some study sites had greater loss to follow-up and more missing data than others, which may limit the generalizability of the findings.CONCLUSIONS: Neonatal and maternal factors were early determinants of lower length-for-age, and their contribution remained important throughout the first 24 months of life, whereas the average number of enteropathogens in non-diarrheal stools, socioeconomic status, and dietary intake became increasingly important contributors by 24 months relative to neonatal and maternal factors. labels: #Age Factors#Anthropometry#Bangladesh#Body Height#Brazil#Child, Preschool#Demography#Developing Countries#Eating#Environment#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#India#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Maternal Health#Nepal#Nutrition Assessment#Peru#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Socioeconomic Factors#South Africa#Tanzania'
b'How neuronal diversity emerges from complex patterns of gene expression remains poorly understood. Here we present an approach to understand electrophysiological diversity through gene expression by integrating pooled- and single-cell transcriptomics with intracellular electrophysiology. Using neuroinformatics methods, we compiled a brain-wide dataset of 34 neuron types with paired gene expression and intrinsic electrophysiological features from publically accessible sources, the largest such collection to date. We identified 420 genes whose expression levels significantly correlated with variability in one or more of 11 physiological parameters. We next trained statistical models to infer cellular features from multivariate gene expression patterns. Such models were predictive of gene-electrophysiological relationships in an independent collection of 12 visual cortex cell types from the Allen Institute, suggesting that these correlations might reflect general principles relating expression patterns to phenotypic diversity across very different cell types. Many associations reported here have the potential to provide new insights into how neurons generate functional diversity, and correlations of ion channel genes like Gabrd and Scn1a (Nav1.1) with resting potential and spiking frequency are consistent with known causal mechanisms. Our work highlights the promise and inherent challenges in using cell type-specific transcriptomics to understand the mechanistic origins of neuronal diversity. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Brain#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Ion Channels#Membrane Potentials#Mice#Neurons#Synaptic Transmission#Transcriptome'
b'Kleefstra syndrome, caused by haploinsufficiency of euchromatin histone methyltransferase 1 (EHMT1), is characterized by intellectual disability (ID), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), characteristic facial dysmorphisms, and other variable clinical features. In addition to EHMT1 mutations, de novo variants were reported in four additional genes (MBD5, SMARCB1, NR1I3, and KMT2C), in single individuals with clinical characteristics overlapping Kleefstra syndrome. Here, we present a novel cohort of five patients with de novo loss of function mutations affecting the histone methyltransferase KMT2C. Our clinical data delineates the KMT2C phenotypic spectrum and reinforces the phenotypic overlap with Kleefstra syndrome and other related ID disorders. To elucidate the common molecular basis of the neuropathology associated with mutations in KMT2C and EHMT1, we characterized the role of the Drosophila KMT2C ortholog, trithorax related (trr), in the nervous system. Similar to the Drosophila EHMT1 ortholog, G9a, trr is required in the mushroom body for short term memory. Trr ChIP-seq identified 3371 binding sites, mainly in the promoter of genes involved in neuronal processes. Transcriptional profiling of pan-neuronal trr knockdown and G9a null mutant fly heads identified 613 and 1123 misregulated genes, respectively. These gene sets show a significant overlap and are associated with nearly identical gene ontology enrichments. The majority of the observed biological convergence is derived from predicted indirect target genes. However, trr and G9a also have common direct targets, including the Drosophila ortholog of Arc (Arc1), a key regulator of synaptic plasticity. Our data highlight the clinical and molecular convergence between the KMT2 and EHMT protein families, which may contribute to a molecular network underlying a larger group of ID/ASD-related disorders. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Autism Spectrum Disorder#Binding Sites#Child#Chromosome Deletion#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 9#Craniofacial Abnormalities#Cytoskeletal Proteins#DNA-Binding Proteins#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Haploinsufficiency#Heart Defects, Congenital#Histone-Lysine N-Methyltransferase#Histones#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neuronal Plasticity#Promoter Regions, Genetic'
b'Pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs) mediate intercellular communication at synapses through the opening of an ion pore in response to the binding of a neurotransmitter. Despite the increasing availability of high-resolution structures of pLGICs, a detailed understanding of the functional isomerization from closed to open (gating) and back is currently missing. Here, we provide the first atomistic description of the transition from open to closed (un-gating) in the glutamate-gated chloride channel (GluCl) from Caenorhabditis Elegans. Starting with the active-state structure solved in complex with the neurotransmitter L-glutamate and the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) ivermectin, we analyze the spontaneous relaxation of the channel upon removal of ivermectin by explicit solvent/membrane Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations. The \xce\xbcs-long trajectories support the conclusion that ion-channel deactivation is mediated by two distinct quaternary transitions, i.e. a global receptor twisting followed by the radial expansion (or blooming) of the extracellular domain. At variance with previous models, we show that pore closing is exclusively regulated by the global twisting, which controls the position of the \xce\xb21-\xce\xb22 loop relative to the M2-M3 loop at the EC/TM domain interface. Additional simulations with L-glutamate restrained to the crystallographic binding mode and ivermectin removed indicate that the same twisting isomerization is regulated by agonist binding at the orthosteric site. These results provide a structural model for gating in pLGICs and suggest a plausible mechanism for the pharmacological action of PAMs in this neurotransmitter receptor family. The simulated un-gating converges to the X-ray structure of GluCl resting state both globally and locally, demonstrating the predictive character of state-of-art MD simulations. labels: #Allosteric Regulation#Allosteric Site#Binding Sites#Chloride Channels#Glutamic Acid#Ion Channel Gating#Ivermectin#Ligand-Gated Ion Channels#Ligands#Models, Chemical#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Neurotransmitter Agents#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation'
b'In developing brain neuronal migration, dendrite outgrowth and dendritic spine outgrowth are controlled by Cdc42, a small GTPase of the Rho family, and its activators. Cdc42 function in promoting actin polymerization is crucial for glutamatergic synapse regulation. Here, we focus on GABAergic synapse-specific activator of Cdc42, collybistin (CB) and examine functional differences between its splice isoforms CB1 and CB2. We report that CB1 and CB2 differentially regulate GABAergic synapse formation in vitro along proximal-distal axis and adult-born neuron maturation in vivo. The functional specialization between CB1 and CB2 isoforms arises from their differential protein half-life, in turn regulated by ubiquitin conjugation of the unique CB1 C-terminus. We report that CB1 and CB2 negatively regulate Cdc42; however, Cdc42 activation is dependent on CB interaction with gephyrin. During hippocampal adult neurogenesis CB1 regulates neuronal migration, while CB2 is essential for dendrite outgrowth. Finally, using mice lacking Gabra2 subunit, we show that CB1 function is downstream of GABAARs, and we can rescue adult neurogenesis deficit observed in Gabra2 KO. Overall, our results uncover previously unexpected role for CB isoforms downstream of \xce\xb12-containing GABAARs during neuron maturation in a Cdc42 dependent mechanism. labels: #Animals#Carrier Proteins#Cell Movement#Gene Expression Regulation#HEK293 Cells#Hippocampus#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Protein Isoforms#Receptors, GABA-A#Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factors#Synapses#cdc42 GTP-Binding Protein'
b'Heterochromatin contains a significant part of nuclear DNA. Little is known about the mechanisms that govern heterochromatic DNA stability. We show here that in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae (i) DNA mismatch repair (MMR) is required for the maintenance of heterochromatic DNA stability, (ii) MutL\xce\xb1 (Mlh1-Pms1 heterodimer), MutS\xce\xb1 (Msh2-Msh6 heterodimer), MutS\xce\xb2 (Msh2-Msh3 heterodimer), and Exo1 are involved in MMR at heterochromatin, (iii) Exo1-independent MMR at heterochromatin frequently leads to the formation of Pol \xce\xb6-dependent mutations, (iv) MMR cooperates with the proofreading activity of Pol \xce\xb5 and the histone acetyltransferase Rtt109 in the maintenance of heterochromatic DNA stability, (v) repair of base-base mismatches at heterochromatin is less efficient than repair of base-base mismatches at euchromatin, and (vi) the efficiency of repair of 1-nt insertion/deletion loops at heterochromatin is similar to the efficiency of repair of 1-nt insertion/deletion loops at euchromatin. labels: #Base Sequence#DNA Damage#DNA Mismatch Repair#DNA, Fungal#Exodeoxyribonucleases#Genes, pol#Heterochromatin#Histone Acetyltransferases#MutL Proteins#MutS DNA Mismatch-Binding Protein#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Sequence Homology'
b'Ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) provides the precursors for the generation of dNTPs, which are required for DNA synthesis and repair. Here, we investigated the function of the major RNR subunits Rnr1 and Rnr3 in telomere elongation in budding yeast. We show that Rnr1 is essential for the sustained elongation of short telomeres by telomerase. In the absence of Rnr1, cells harbor very short, but functional, telomeres, which cannot become elongated by increased telomerase activity or by tethering of telomerase to telomeres. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Rnr1 function is critical to prevent an early onset of replicative senescence and premature survivor formation in telomerase-negative cells but dispensable for telomere elongation by Homology-Directed-Repair. Our results suggest that telomerase has a "basal activity" mode that is sufficient to compensate for the "end-replication-problem" and does not require the presence of Rnr1 and a different "sustained activity" mode necessary for the elongation of short telomeres, which requires an upregulation of dNTP levels and dGTP ratios specifically through Rnr1 function. By analyzing telomere length and dNTP levels in different mutants showing changes in RNR complex composition and activity we provide evidence that the Mec1ATR checkpoint protein promotes telomere elongation by increasing both dNTP levels and dGTP ratios through Rnr1 upregulation in a mechanism that cannot be replaced by its homolog Rnr3. labels: #Cellular Senescence#DNA Replication#Ribonucleotide Reductases#Saccharomycetales#Telomerase#Telomere#Telomere Homeostasis'
b'Many microorganisms that cause systemic, life-threatening infections in humans reside as harmless commensals in our digestive tract. Yet little is known about the biology of these microbes in the gut. Here, we visualize the interface between the human commensal and pathogenic fungus Candida albicans and the intestine of mice, a surrogate host. Because the indigenous mouse microbiota restricts C. albicans settlement, we compared the patterns of colonization in the gut of germ free and antibiotic-treated conventionally raised mice. In contrast to the heterogeneous morphologies found in the latter, we establish that in germ free animals the fungus almost uniformly adopts the yeast cell form, a proxy of its commensal state. By screening a collection of C. albicans transcription regulator deletion mutants in gnotobiotic mice, we identify several genes previously unknown to contribute to in vivo fitness. We investigate three of these regulators-ZCF8, ZFU2 and TRY4-and show that indeed they favor the yeast form over other morphologies. Consistent with this finding, we demonstrate that genetically inducing non-yeast cell morphologies is detrimental to the fitness of C. albicans in the gut. Furthermore, the identified regulators promote adherence of the fungus to a surface covered with mucin and to mucus-producing intestinal epithelial cells. In agreement with this result, histology sections indicate that C. albicans dwells in the murine gut in close proximity to the mucus layer. Thus, our findings reveal a set of regulators that endows C. albicans with the ability to endure in the intestine through multiple mechanisms. labels: #Animals#Candida albicans#Candidiasis#Germ-Free Life#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Intestinal Mucosa#Life Cycle Stages#Mice#Symbiosis'
b'Objectives: Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) has been described, but unselected PDAs have shown limited clinical responsiveness to anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1)/PD-L1 therapy.Methods: We studied 24 cases of undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma (UPC) using immunohistochemistry for PD-L1 (E1L3N clone), CD3, CD20, CD68, and DNA mismatch repair proteins in this study. Slides were scored for extent of PD-L1 expression on tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating immune cells.Results: PD-L1 expression was more frequent in UPCs than in PDAs (63% vs 15%, P<.01). The extent of PD-L1 expression was greater in UPCs, with 13 (87%) of 15 cases containing 10% or more positive tumor cells compared with three of seven PDAs (P = .05). Both tumor groups showed similar numbers of tumor-infiltrating T cells, B cells, and macrophages.Conclusions: UPC is enriched for PD-L1 expression in frequency and extent, relative to conventional PDA. Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents may represent a valuable therapeutic approach for this subset of highly aggressive pancreatic carcinoma. labels: #Aged#B7-H1 Antigen#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#History, 16th Century#History, 17th Century#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphocytes, Tumor-Infiltrating#Male#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Proportional Hazards Models'
b'Objectives: Lymph node metastasis (LNM) in submucosal invasive esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SM-ESCC) is a prognostic factor. The aim of this study was to identify a histopathologic predictor of LNM in SM-ESCC.Methods: In total, 108 patients who underwent an esophagectomy and lymph node dissection without preoperative therapy and who were pathologically diagnosed with SM-ESCC were enrolled in this study. Relationships between several clinicopathologic factors and LNM were examined.Results: A multivariate analysis revealed that a tumor size of 35 mm or more (P = .0025), submucosal invasive depth (SID) of 2,000 \xce\xbcm or more (P = .013), and lymphatic infiltration (P<.0001) were significant independent predictors of LNM. In addition, there were significant differences in recurrence-free survival curves between patients with SID less than 2,000 \xce\xbcm or not (P = .029) and tumor size less than 35 mm or not (P = .049).Conclusions: This study suggests that SID may predict not only LNM but also poor prognosis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models'
b"Cell replacement has been explored as a therapeutic strategy to repair the brain in patients with Huntington's and Parkinson's disease. Post-mortem evaluations of healthy grafted tissue in such cases have revealed the development of Huntington- or Parkinson-like pathology including mutant huntingtin aggregates and Lewy bodies. An outstanding question remains if tau pathology can also be seen in patients with Huntington's and Parkinson's disease who had received foetal neural allografts. This was addressed by immunohistochemical/immunofluorescent stainings performed on grafted tissue of two Huntington's disease patients, who came to autopsy 9 and 12 years post-transplantation, and two patients with Parkinson's disease who came to autopsy 18 months and 16 years post-transplantation. We show that grafts also contain tau pathology in both types of transplanted patients. In two patients with Huntington's disease, the grafted tissue showed the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau [both AT8 (phospho-tau Ser202 and Thr205) and CP13 (pSer202) immunohistochemical stainings]pathological inclusions, neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads. In patients with Parkinson's disease, the grafted tissue was characterized by hyperphosphorylated tau (AT8; immunofluorescent staining) pathological inclusions, neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads but only in the patient who came to autopsy 16 years post-transplantation. Abundant tau-related pathology was observed in the cortex and striatum of all cases studied. While the striatum of the grafted Huntington's disease patient revealed an equal amount of 3-repeat and 4-repeat isoforms of tau, the grafted tissue showed elevated 4-repeat isoforms by western blot. This suggests that transplants may have acquired tau pathology from the host brain, although another possibility is that this was due to acceleration of ageing. This finding not only adds to the recent reports that tau pathology is a feature of these neurodegenerative diseases, but also that tau pathology can manifest in healthy neural tissue transplanted into the brains of patients with two distinct neurodegenerative disorders. labels: #Adult#Aged#Allografts#Autopsy#Case-Control Studies#Child#Female#Fetal Tissue Transplantation#Humans#Huntington Disease#Male#Middle Aged#Neostriatum#Parkinson Disease#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#tau Proteins"
b'BACKGROUND: Detailed neuropathological information on the structural brain lesions underlying seizures is valuable for understanding drug-resistant focal epilepsy.METHODS: We report the diagnoses made on the basis of resected brain specimens from 9523 patients who underwent epilepsy surgery for drug-resistant seizures in 36 centers from 12 European countries over 25 years. Histopathological diagnoses were determined through examination of the specimens in local hospitals (41%) or at the German Neuropathology Reference Center for Epilepsy Surgery (59%).RESULTS: The onset of seizures occurred before 18 years of age in 75.9% of patients overall, and 72.5% of the patients underwent surgery as adults. The mean duration of epilepsy before surgical resection was 20.1 years among adults and 5.3 years among children. The temporal lobe was involved in 71.9% of operations. There were 36 histopathological diagnoses in seven major disease categories. The most common categories were hippocampal sclerosis, found in 36.4% of the patients (88.7% of cases were in adults), tumors (mainly ganglioglioma) in 23.6%, and malformations of cortical development in 19.8% (focal cortical dysplasia was the most common type, 52.7% of cases of which were in children). No histopathological diagnosis could be established for 7.7% of the patients.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with drug-resistant focal epilepsy requiring surgery, hippocampal sclerosis was the most common histopathological diagnosis among adults, and focal cortical dysplasia was the most common diagnosis among children. Tumors were the second most common lesion in both groups. (Funded by the European Union and others.). labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Age of Onset#Brain#Brain Neoplasms#Child#Databases as Topic#Epilepsy#Europe#Female#Hippocampus#Humans#Male#Malformations of Cortical Development#Temporal Lobe'
b'BACKGROUND: Neurosurgical treatment may improve seizures in children and adolescents with drug-resistant epilepsy, but additional data are needed from randomized trials.METHODS: In this single-center trial, we randomly assigned 116 patients who were 18 years of age or younger with drug-resistant epilepsy to undergo brain surgery appropriate to the underlying cause of epilepsy along with appropriate medical therapy (surgery group, 57 patients) or to receive medical therapy alone (medical-therapy group, 59 patients). The patients in the medical-therapy group were assigned to a waiting list for surgery. The primary outcome was freedom from seizures at 12 months. Secondary outcomes were the score on the Hague Seizure Severity scale, the Binet-Kamat intelligence quotient, the social quotient on the Vineland Social Maturity Scale, and scores on the Child Behavior Checklist and the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory.RESULTS: At 12 months, freedom from seizures occurred in 44 patients (77%) in the surgery group and in 4 (7%) in the medical-therapy group (P<0.001). Between-group differences in the change from baseline to 12 months significantly favored surgery with respect to the score on the Hague Seizure Severity scale (difference, 19.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 15.8 to 23.1; P<0.001), on the Child Behavior Checklist (difference, 13.1; 95% CI, 10.7 to 15.6; P<0.001), on the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (difference, 21.9; 95% CI, 16.4 to 27.6; P<0.001), and on the Vineland Social Maturity Scale (difference, 4.7; 95% CI, 0.4 to 9.1; P=0.03), but not on the Binet-Kamat intelligence quotient (difference, 2.5; 95% CI, -0.1 to 5.1; P=0.06). Serious adverse events occurred in 19 patients (33%) in the surgery group, including hemiparesis in 15 (26%).CONCLUSIONS: In this single-center trial, children and adolescents with drug-resistant epilepsy who had undergone epilepsy surgery had a significantly higher rate of freedom from seizures and better scores with respect to behavior and quality of life than did those who continued medical therapy alone at 12 months. Surgery resulted in anticipated neurologic deficits related to the region of brain resection. (Funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research and others; Clinical Trial Registry-India number, CTRI/2010/091/000525 .). labels: #Adolescent#Anterior Temporal Lobectomy#Anticonvulsants#Child#Child Behavior#Child, Preschool#Cognitive Dysfunction#Drug Resistance#Epilepsy#Female#Humans#Infant#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Movement Disorders#Paresis#Postoperative Complications#Quality of Life#Seizures#Surveys and Questionnaires#Temporal Lobe#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Chromosomal rearrangements involving 17q23 have been described rarely. Deletions at 17q23.1q23.2 have been reported in individuals with developmental delay and growth retardation, whereas duplications at 17q23.1q23.2 appear to segregate with clubfoot. Dosage alterations in the TBX2 and TBX4 genes, located in 17q23.2, have been proposed to be responsible for the phenotypes observed in individuals with 17q23.1q23.2 deletions and duplications. In this report, we present the clinical phenotype of a child with a previously unreported de novo duplication at 17q23.2q23.3 located distal to the TBX2 and TBX4 region.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 7.5-year-old boy with speech and language disorder, learning difficulties, incoordination, fine motor skill impairment, infrequent seizures with abnormal EEG, and behavior disturbances (mild self-inflicted injuries, hyperactivity-inattention, and stereotyped hand movements). Chromosomal microarray revealed a 2-Mb duplication of chromosome 17q23.2q23.3. Both parents did not have the duplication indicating that this duplication is de novo in the child.CONCLUSIONS: The duplicated region encompasses 16 genes. It is possible that increased dosage of one or more genes in this region is responsible for the observed phenotype. The TANC2 gene is one of the genes in the duplicated region.It encodes a member of the TANC (tetratricopeptide repeat, ankyrin repeat and coiled-coil containing) family which includes TANC1 and TANC2. These proteins are highly expressed in brain and play major roles in synapsis regulation. Hence, it is suggestive that TANC2 is the likely candidate gene responsible for the observed phenotype as an increased TANC2 dosage can potentially alter synapsis, resulting in neuronal dysfunction and the neurobehavioral phenotype observed in this child with 17q23.2q23.3 duplication. labels: #Ataxia#Child#Chromosome Duplication#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 17#Developmental Disabilities#Electroencephalography#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression#Humans#Learning Disorders#Male#Phenotype#Proteins#Psychomotor Disorders#Seizures#Self-Injurious Behavior#Speech Disorders'
b'BACKGROUND: Rumex crispus root has traditionally been used in Asian medicine for the treatment of hemorrhage and dermatolosis. The aim of this study was to explore the pharmaceutical effects of water extract of Rumex crispus (WERC) on osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation. We also studied the effect of WERC on the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL)-induced trabecular bone destruction mice model.METHODS: High performance liquid chromatography analysis was used to identify three compounds (emodin, chrysophanol, and physcion) of WERC. The in vivo effect of WERC was examined using an administration of WERC or vehicle on the ICR mice with bone loss induced by intraperitoneal RANKL injection on day 0 and 1. All mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation at day 7 and the femurs of mice were isolated for soft X-ray and Micro-CT analysis. The in vitro effect of WERC on osteoblast mineralization or osteoclast differentiation was examined by alizarin red S staining or by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining and assay. To determine the transcription level of osteoblast or osteoclast-specific genes, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used. Western blot analysis was performed to study the effect of WERC on mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) or nuclear factor-\xce\xbaB (NF-\xce\xbaB) signaling molecules.RESULTS: The presence of three compounds in WERC was determined. WERC significantly suppressed RANKL-induced trabecular bone loss by preventing microstructural deterioration. In vitro, WERC increased osteoblast mineralization by enhancing the transcription of runt-related transcription factor 2 and its transcriptional coactivators, and by stimulating extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. Furthermore, WERC significantly inhibited osteoclast differentiation by suppressing the activation of the RANKL signalings (MAPK and NF-\xce\xbaB) and the increasing inhibitory factors of nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1.CONCLUSION: This study showed that WERC could protect against osteoporosis and suggested that the possible mechanism of WERC might be related to increased osteoblast differentiation by activating Runx2 signaling and inhibition of osteoclast differentiation by suppression of RANKL signaling. labels: #Animals#Bone Resorption#Calcification, Physiologic#Cell Differentiation#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred ICR#NFATC Transcription Factors#Osteoblasts#Osteoclasts#Osteogenesis#Plant Extracts#Rumex'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Guideline recommendations for the same clinical condition may vary. The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of agreement among comparable asthma and bronchiolitis treatment recommendations from guidelines.METHODS: National and international guidelines were searched by using guideline databases (eg, National Guidelines Clearinghouse: December 16-17, 2014, and January 9, 2015). Guideline recommendations were categorized as (1) recommend, (2) optionally recommend, (3) abstain from recommending, (4) recommend against a treatment, and (5) not addressed by the guideline. The degree of agreement between recommendations was evaluated by using an unweighted and weighted \xce\xba score. Pairwise comparisons of the guidelines were evaluated similarly.RESULTS: There were 7 guidelines for asthma and 4 guidelines for bronchiolitis. For asthma, there were 166 recommendation topics, with 69 recommendation topics given in \xe2\x89\xa52 guidelines. For bronchiolitis, there were 46 recommendation topics, with 21 recommendation topics provided in \xe2\x89\xa52 guidelines. The overall \xce\xba for asthma was 0.03, both unweighted (95% confidence interval [CI]: -0.01 to 0.07) and weighted (95% CI: -0.01 to 0.10); for bronchiolitis, it was 0.32 unweighted (95% CI: 0.16 to 0.52) and 0.15 weighted (95% CI: -0.01 to 0.5).CONCLUSIONS: Less agreement was found in national and international guidelines for asthma than for bronchiolitis. Additional studies are needed to determine if differences are based on patient preferences and values and economic considerations or if other recommendation-level, guideline-level, and condition-level factors are driving these differences. labels: #Asthma#Bronchiolitis#Databases, Factual#Humans#Internationality#Practice Guidelines as Topic'
b'FBXW7 (F-box and WD repeat domain containing-7) is a tumor suppressor protein that regulates the degradation of various oncoproteins in several malignancies. However, limited information is available regarding FBXW7 expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the clinical significance of FBXW7 expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma. The FBXW7 expression patterns in oral squamous cell carcinoma and adjacent normal tissues from 15 patients who underwent radical resection were evaluated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical staining. In addition, immunohistochemistry was performed using paraffin-embedded sections from biopsy specimens obtained from 110 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who underwent surgery after 5 fluorouracil-based chemoradiotherapy. The associations of FBXW7 expression with various clinicopathological features and prognosis were evaluated in these patients. As a results, in the 15 matched samples, the FBXW7 expression was significantly decreased in the oral squamous cell carcinoma tissues compared to that in the adjacent normal tissues. In the clinicopathological analysis, compared to high protein expression, low FBXW7 expression was found to significantly associate with a poor histological response to preoperative chemoradiotherapy. Kaplan-Meier curve analysis revealed that low FBXW7 expression was significantly associated with a poor prognosis, and FBXW7 expression was found to be an independent predictor of overall survival in the multivariate analysis. Our results suggest that FBXW7 may function as a tumor suppressor protein in oral squamous cell carcinoma. In addition, FBXW7 could be a potential biomarker for predicting not only the clinical response to chemoradiotherapy but also overall survival in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#F-Box Proteins#F-Box-WD Repeat-Containing Protein 7#Female#Fluorouracil#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Mouth Neoplasms#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma is the most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide. The lifestyle, food habits, and customary practices manifest the Northeast Indian population toward higher susceptibility to develop head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Here, we have investigated the association of smoke and smokeless tobacco, and alcohol with copy number variation of cell-free mitochondrial DNA and cell-free nuclear DNA in cases and controls. Cell-free DNA from plasma was isolated from 50 head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cases and 50 controls with informed written consent using QIAamp Circulating Nucleic Acid Kit. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was done for copy number variation in cell-free mitochondrial DNA and cell-free nuclear DNA. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed to evaluate the diagnostic application between the two study groups using clinicopathological parameters. The levels of cell-free nuclear DNA and cell-free mitochondrial DNA of cases in association with smoke and smokeless tobacco, alcohol with smoking (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) were significantly higher (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01 and p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001, respectively) than controls. Using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis between head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cases and controls, we distinguished cell-free mitochondrial DNA (cutoff: 19.84 raw Ct; sensitivity: 84%; specificity: 100%; p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001) and cell-free nuclear DNA (cutoff: 463,282\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL; sensitivity: 53%; specificity: 87%; p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001). The copy number variation in cases (cell-free nuclear DNA: 5451.66\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL and cell-free mitochondrial DNA: 29,103,476.15\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL) and controls (cell-free nuclear DNA: 1650.9\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL and cell-free mitochondrial DNA: 9,189,312.54\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL), respectively. Our result indicates that the cell-free mitochondrial DNA content is highly associated with smoke and smokeless tobacco, betel quid chewing, and alcohol which shows greater promises, holding the key characteristics of diagnostic biomarkers, that is, minimal invasiveness, high specificity, and sensitivity. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alcohol Drinking#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA, Mitochondrial#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#India#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Smoking#Tobacco, Smokeless'
b'A repertoire of monoclonal antibodies was generated by immunization of mice with cancer-associated glycoprotein CA19.9, and two of them were selected as optimal capture and detecting counterparts for sandwich test system for detection of CA19.9. Fine epitope specificity of the antibodies was determined using printed glycan array, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and inhibitory enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Unexpectedly, both immunoglobulins did not bind key epitope of CA19.9 glycoprotein, tetrasaccharide SiaLeA, as well as its defucosylated form sialyl LeC(known as CA-50 epitope). The antibodies were found to have different glycan-binding profiles; however, they recognized similar glycotopes with common motif Gal\xce\xb21-3GlcNAc\xce\xb2 (LeC), thus resembling specificity of human natural cancer-associated anti-LeCantibodies. We propose that cancer-specific glycopeptide epitope includes Gal\xce\xb21-3GlcNAc\xce\xb2 fragment of a glycoprotein O-chain in combination with proximal hydrophobic amino acid(s) of the polypeptide chain. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#CA-19-9 Antigen#Epitopes#Glycopeptides#Humans#Mice#N-Acetylneuraminic Acid#Neoplasms#Trisaccharides'
b'Previous in vitro studies have demonstrated that miR-144 inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. We have shown that miR-144, injected intravenously, is taken up by the liver and induces endogenous hepatic synthesis of miR-144. We hypothesized that administered miR-144 has tumor-suppressive effects on liver tumor development in vivo. The effects of miR-144 on tumorigenesis and tumor growth were tested in a diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model. MiR-144 injection had no effect on body weight but significantly reduced diethylnitrosamine-induced liver enlargement compared with scrambled microRNA. MiR-144 had no effect on diethylnitrosamine-induced liver tumor number but reduced the tumor size above 50%, as evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (scrambled microRNA 23.07\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x895.67 vs miR-144 10.38\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.62, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and histological analysis (scrambled microRNA 30.75\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x895.41 vs miR-144 15.20\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x893.41, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05). The levels of miR-144 was suppressed in tumor tissue compared with non-tumor tissue in all treatment groups (diethylnitrosamine-phosphate-buffered saline non-tumor 1.05\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.09 vs tumor 0.54\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.08, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01; diethylnitrosamine-scrambled microRNA non-tumor 1.23\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.33 vs tumor 0.44\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.10, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05; diethylnitrosamine-miR-144 non-tumor 54.72\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8911.80 vs tumor 11.66\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.75, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01), but injection of miR-144 greatly increased miR-144 levels both in tumor and non-tumor tissues. Mechanistic studies showed that miR-144 targets epidermal growth factor receptor and inhibits the downstream Src/AKT signaling pathway which has previously been implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma tumorigenesis. Exogenously delivered miR-144 may be a therapeutic strategy to suppress tumor growth in hepatocellular carcinoma. labels: #Administration, Intravenous#Animals#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cell Proliferation#Diethylnitrosamine#Disease Models, Animal#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver#Liver Neoplasms#Mice#MicroRNAs'
b'Protein structural changes induced by external perturbations or internal cues can profoundly influence protein activity and thus modulate cellular physiology. A number of biophysical approaches are available to probe protein structural changes, but these are not applicable to a whole proteome in a biological extract. Limited proteolysis-coupled mass spectrometry (LiP-MS) is a recently developed proteomics approach that enables the identification of protein structural changes directly in their complex biological context on a proteome-wide scale. After perturbations of interest, proteome extracts are subjected to a double-protease digestion step with a nonspecific protease applied under native conditions, followed by complete digestion with the sequence-specific protease trypsin under denaturing conditions. This sequential treatment generates structure-specific peptides amenable to bottom-up MS analysis. Next, a proteomics workflow involving shotgun or targeted MS and label-free quantification is applied to measure structure-dependent proteolytic patterns directly in the proteome extract. Possible applications of LiP-MS include discovery of perturbation-induced protein structural alterations, identification of drug targets, detection of disease-associated protein structural states, and analysis of protein aggregates directly in biological samples. The approach also enables identification of the specific protein regions involved in the structural transition or affected by the binding event. Sample preparation takes approximately 2 d, followed by one to several days of MS and data analysis time, depending on the number of samples analyzed. Scientists with basic biochemistry training can implement the sample preparation steps. MS measurement and data analysis require a background in proteomics. labels: #Biomarkers#Complex Mixtures#Drug Design#Endopeptidase K#Ficain#HeLa Cells#Humans#Pronase#Protein Structure, Secondary#Protein Structure, Tertiary#Proteolysis#Proteome#Proteomics#Quality Control#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Tandem Mass Spectrometry#Thermolysin#Trypsin'
b"The adoption of and opportunities in continuous flow synthesis ('flow chemistry') have increased significantly over the past several years. Continuous flow systems provide improved reaction safety and accelerated reaction kinetics, and have synthesised several active pharmaceutical ingredients in automated reconfigurable systems. Although continuous flow platforms are commercially available, systems constructed 'in-lab' provide researchers with a flexible, versatile, and cost-effective alternative. Herein, we describe the assembly and use of a modular continuous flow apparatus from readily available and affordable parts in as little as 30 min. Once assembled, the synthesis of a sulfonamide by reacting 4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl chloride with dibenzylamine in a single reactor coil with an in-line quench is presented. This example reaction offers the opportunity to learn several important skills including reactor construction, charging of a back-pressure regulator, assembly of stainless-steel syringes, assembly of a continuous flow system with multiple junctions, and yield determination. From our extensive experience of single-step and multistep continuous flow synthesis, we also describe solutions to commonly encountered technical problems such as precipitation of solids ('clogging') and reactor failure. Following this protocol, a nonspecialist can assemble a continuous flow system from reactor coils, syringes, pumps, in-line liquid-liquid separators, drying columns, back-pressure regulators, static mixers, and packed-bed reactors. labels: #Benzylamines#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Chlorobenzenes#Kinetics#Rheology#Sulfonamides"
b'Glycobiology, in particular the study of carbohydrate-protein interactions and the events that follow, has become an important research focus in recent decades. To study these interactions, many assays require homogeneous glycoconjugates in suitable amounts. Their synthesis is one of the methodological challenges of glycobiology. Here, we describe a versatile, three-stage protocol for the formation of glycoconjugates from unprotected carbohydrates, including those purified from natural sources, as exemplified here by rhizobial Nod factors and exopolysaccharide fragments. The first stage is to add an oligo(ethylene glycol) linker (OEG-linker) that has a terminal triphenylmethanethiol group to the reducing end of the oligosaccharide by oxime formation catalyzed by aniline. The triphenylmethyl (trityl) tag is then removed from the linker to expose a thiol (stage 2) to allow a conjugation reaction at the thiol group (stage 3). There are many possible conjugation reactions, depending on the desired application. Examples shown in this protocol are as follows: (i) coupling of the oligosaccharide to a support for surface plasmon resonance (SPR) studies, (ii) fluorescence labeling for microscale thermophoresis (MST) or bioimaging, and (iii) biotinylation for biolayer interferometry (BLI) studies. This protocol starts from unprotected carbohydrates and provides glycoconjugates in milligram amounts in just 2 d. labels: #Aniline Compounds#Biotinylation#Catalysis#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Glycoconjugates#Glycomics#Interferometry#Lipopolysaccharides#Optical Imaging#Oximes#Polyethylene Glycols#Protein Binding#Sulfhydryl Compounds#Surface Plasmon Resonance#Trityl Compounds'
b'Importance: Robotic rectal cancer surgery is gaining popularity, but limited data are available regarding safety and efficacy.Objective: To compare robotic-assisted vs conventional laparoscopic surgery for risk of conversion to open laparotomy among patients undergoing resection for rectal cancer.Design, Setting, and Participants: Randomized clinical trial comparing robotic-assisted vs conventional laparoscopic surgery among 471 patients with rectal adenocarcinoma suitable for curative resection conducted at 29 sites across 10 countries, including 40 surgeons. Recruitment of patients was from January 7, 2011, to September 30, 2014, follow-up was conducted at 30 days and 6 months, and final follow-up was on June 16, 2015.Interventions: Patients were randomized to robotic-assisted (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89237) or conventional (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89234) laparoscopic rectal cancer resection, performed by either high (upper rectum) or low (total rectum) anterior resection or abdominoperineal resection (rectum and perineum).Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome was conversion to open laparotomy. Secondary end points included intraoperative and postoperative complications, circumferential resection margin positivity (CRM+) and other pathological outcomes, quality of life (36-Item Short Form Survey and 20-item Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory), bladder and sexual dysfunction (International Prostate Symptom Score, International Index of Erectile Function, and Female Sexual Function Index), and oncological outcomes.Results: Among 471 randomized patients (mean [SD] age, 64.9 [11.0]years; 320 [67.9%] men), 466 (98.9%) completed the study. The overall rate of conversion to open laparotomy was 10.1%: 19 of 236 patients (8.1%) in the robotic-assisted laparoscopic group and 28 of 230 patients (12.2%) in the conventional laparoscopic group (unadjusted risk difference\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.1% [95% CI, -1.4% to 9.6%]; adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.61 [95% CI, 0.31 to 1.21]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.16). The overall CRM+ rate was 5.7%; CRM+ occurred in 14 (6.3%) of 224 patients in the conventional laparoscopic group and 12 (5.1%) of 235 patients in the robotic-assisted laparoscopic group (unadjusted risk difference\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.1% [95% CI, -3.1% to 5.4%]; adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.78 [95% CI, 0.35 to 1.76]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.56). Of the other 8 reported prespecified secondary end points, including intraoperative complications, postoperative complications, plane of surgery, 30-day mortality, bladder dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, none showed a statistically significant difference between groups.Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients with rectal adenocarcinoma suitable for curative resection, robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, as compared with conventional laparoscopic surgery, did not significantly reduce the risk of conversion to open laparotomy. These findings suggest that robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, when performed by surgeons with varying experience with robotic surgery, does not confer an advantage in rectal cancer resection.Trial Registration: isrctn.org Identifier: ISRCTN80500123. labels: #Aged#Conversion to Open Surgery#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Direct Service Costs#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Laparotomy#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Rectal Neoplasms#Risk#Robotic Surgical Procedures'
b'Importance: Use of robotic surgery has increased in urological practice over the last decade. However, the use, outcomes, and costs of robotic nephrectomy are unknown.Objectives: To examine the trend in use of robotic-assisted operations for radical nephrectomy in the United States and to compare the perioperative outcomes and costs with laparoscopic radical nephrectomy.Design, Setting, and Participants: This retrospective cohort study used the Premier Healthcare database to evaluate outcomes of patients who had undergone robotic-assisted or laparoscopic radical nephrectomy for renal mass at 416 US hospitals between January 2003 and September 2015. Multivariable regression modeling was used to assess outcomes.Exposures: Robotic-assisted vs laparoscopic radical nephrectomy.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome of the study was the trend in use of robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy. The secondary outcomes were perioperative complications, based on the Clavien classification system, and defined as any complication (Clavien grades 1-5) or major complications (Clavien grades 3-5, for which grade 5 results in death); resource use (operating time, blood transfusion, length of hospital stay); and direct hospital cost.Results: Among 23\xe2\x80\xaf753 patients included in the study (mean age, 61.4 years; men, 13\xe2\x80\xaf792 [58.1%]), 18\xe2\x80\xaf573 underwent laparoscopic radical nephrectomy and 5180 underwent robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy. Use of robotic-assisted surgery increased from 1.5% (39 of 2676 radical nephrectomy procedures in 2003) to 27.0% (862 of 3194 radical nephrectomy procedures) in 2015 (P for trend<.001). In the weighted-adjusted analysis, there were no significant differences between robotic-assisted and laparoscopic radical nephrectomy in the incidence of any (Clavien grades 1-5) postoperative complications (adjusted rates, 22.2% vs 23.4%, difference, -1.2%; 95% CI, -5.4 to 3.0%) or major (Clavien grades 3-5) complications (adjusted rates, 3.5% vs 3.8%, difference, -0.3%; 95% CI, -1.0% to 0.5%). The rate of prolonged operating time (>4 hours) for patients undergoing the robotic-assisted procedure was higher than for patients receiving the laparoscopic procedure in the adjusted analysis (46.3% vs 25.8%; risk difference, 20.5%; 95% CI, 14.2% to 26.8%). Robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy was associated with higher mean 90-day direct hospital costs ($19\xe2\x80\xaf530 vs $16\xe2\x80\xaf851; difference, $2678; 95% CI, $838 to $4519), mainly accounted for operating room ($7217 vs $5378; difference, $1839; 95% CI, $1050 to $2628) and supply costs ($4876 vs $3891; difference, $985; 95% CI, $473 to $1498).Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients undergoing radical nephrectomy for renal mass between 2003 and 2015, the use of robotic-assisted surgery increased substantially. The use of robotic-assistance was not associated with increased risk of any or major complications but was associated with prolonged operating time and higher hospital costs compared with laparoscopic surgery. labels: #Aged#Female#Hospital Costs#Humans#Kidney Diseases#Laparoscopy#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrectomy#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Robotic Surgical Procedures#United States'
b'Importance: Prehospital blood product transfusion in trauma care remains controversial due to poor-quality evidence and cost. Sequential expansion of blood transfusion capability after 2012 to deployed military medical evacuation (MEDEVAC) units enabled a concurrent cohort study to focus on the timing as well as the location of the initial transfusion.Objective: To examine the association of prehospital transfusion and time to initial transfusion with injury survival.Design, Setting, and Participants: Retrospective cohort study of US military combat casualties in Afghanistan between April 1, 2012, and August 7, 2015. Eligible patients were rescued alive by MEDEVAC from point of injury with either (1) a traumatic limb amputation at or above the knee or elbow or (2) shock defined as a systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg or a heart rate greater than 120 beats per minute.Exposures: Initiation of prehospital transfusion and time from MEDEVAC rescue to first transfusion, regardless of location (ie, prior to or during hospitalization). Transfusion recipients were compared with nonrecipients (unexposed) for whom transfusion was delayed or not given.Main Outcomes and Measures: Mortality at 24 hours and 30 days after MEDEVAC rescue were coprimary outcomes. To balance injury severity, nonrecipients of prehospital transfusion were frequency matched to recipients by mechanism of injury, prehospital shock, severity of limb amputation, head injury, and torso hemorrhage. Cox regression was stratified by matched groups and also adjusted for age, injury year, transport team, tourniquet use, and time to MEDEVAC rescue.Results: Of 502 patients (median age, 25 years [interquartile range, 22 to 29 years]; 98% male), 3 of 55 prehospital transfusion recipients (5%) and 85 of 447 nonrecipients (19%) died within 24 hours of MEDEVAC rescue (between-group difference, -14% [95% CI, -21% to -6%]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.01). By day 30, 6 recipients (11%) and 102 nonrecipients (23%) died (between-group difference, -12% [95% CI, -21% to -2%]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.04). For the 386 patients without missing covariate data among the 400 patients within the matched groups, the adjusted hazard ratio for mortality associated with prehospital transfusion was 0.26 (95% CI, 0.08 to 0.84, P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.02) over 24 hours (3 deaths among 54 recipients vs 67 deaths among 332 matched nonrecipients) and 0.39 (95% CI, 0.16 to 0.92, P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.03) over 30 days (6 vs 76 deaths, respectively). Time to initial transfusion, regardless of location (prehospital or during hospitalization), was associated with reduced 24-hour mortality only up to 15 minutes after MEDEVAC rescue (median, 36 minutes after injury; adjusted hazard ratio, 0.17 [95% CI, 0.04 to 0.73], P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.02; there were 2 deaths among 62 recipients vs 68 deaths among 324 delayed transfusion recipients or nonrecipients).Conclusions and Relevance: Among medically evacuated US military combat causalities in Afghanistan, blood product transfusion prehospital or within minutes of injury was associated with greater 24-hour and 30-day survival than delayed transfusion or no transfusion. The findings support prehospital transfusion in this setting. labels: #Adult#Afghan Campaign 2001-#Air Ambulances#Blood Transfusion#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Humans#Male#Military Medicine#Military Personnel#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Time-to-Treatment#United States#Wounds and Injuries#Young Adult'
b"Importance: Hypothermia initiated at less than 6 hours after birth reduces death or disability for infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy at 36 weeks' or later gestation. To our knowledge, hypothermia trials have not been performed in infants presenting after 6 hours.Objective: To estimate the probability that hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth reduces the risk of death or disability at 18 months among infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.Design, Setting, and Participants: A randomized clinical trial was conducted between April 2008 and June 2016 among infants at 36 weeks' or later gestation with moderate or severe hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy enrolled at 6 to 24 hours after birth. Twenty-one US Neonatal Research Network centers participated. Bayesian analyses were prespecified given the anticipated limited sample size.Interventions: Targeted esophageal temperature was used in 168 infants. Eighty-three hypothermic infants were maintained at 33.5\xc2\xb0C (acceptable range, 33\xc2\xb0C-34\xc2\xb0C) for 96 hours and then rewarmed. Eighty-five noncooled infants were maintained at 37.0\xc2\xb0C (acceptable range, 36.5\xc2\xb0C-37.3\xc2\xb0C).Main Outcomes and Measures: The composite of death or disability (moderate or severe) at 18 to 22 months adjusted for level of encephalopathy and age at randomization.Results: Hypothermic and noncooled infants were term (mean [SD], 39 [2]and 39 [1] weeks' gestation, respectively), and 47 of 83 (57%) and 55 of 85 (65%) were male, respectively. Both groups were acidemic at birth, predominantly transferred to the treating center with moderate encephalopathy, and were randomizedat a mean (SD) of 16 (5) and 15 (5) hours for hypothermic and noncooled groups, respectively. The primary outcome occurred in 19 of 78 hypothermic infants (24.4%) and 22 of 79 noncooled infants (27.9%) (absolute difference, 3.5%; 95% CI, -1% to 17%). Bayesian analysis using a neutral prior indicated a 76% posterior probability of reduced death or disability with hypothermia relative to the noncooled group (adjusted posterior risk ratio, 0.86; 95% credible interval, 0.58-1.29). The probability that death or disability in cooled infants was at least 1%, 2%, or 3% less than noncooled infants was 71%, 64%, and 56%, respectively.Conclusions and Relevance: Among term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth compared with noncooling resulted in a 76% probability of any reduction in death or disability, and a 64% probability of at least 2% less death or disability at 18 to 22 months. Hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth may have benefit but there is uncertainty in its effectiveness.Trial Registration: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00614744. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Developmental Disabilities#Female#Gestational Age#Humans#Hypothermia, Induced#Hypoxia-Ischemia, Brain#Infant, Newborn#Male#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Time-to-Treatment"
b'All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), the most biologically active metabolite of vitamin A, is known to activate p14 expression via promoter hypermethylation to induce p53-dependent apoptosis in human hepatocytes. In this study, we found that the oncogenic hepatitis B virus (HBV) X protein (HBx) of HBV, derived from both overexpression and 1.2-mer replicon systems, suppresses ATRA-induced apoptosis in p53-positive human hepatocytes. For this effect, HBx upregulated both protein and enzyme activity levels of DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a and 3b, in the presence of ATRA and thereby inhibited p14 expression via promoter hypermethylation, resulting in inactivation of the p14-mouse double minute 2 pathway and subsequent downregulation of p53 levels. As a result, HBx was able to impair the potential of ATRA to activate apoptosis-related molecules, including Bax, p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis, caspase-9, caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. In conclusion, the present study provides a new oncogenic action mechanism of HBx, namely by suppressing the anticancer potential of ATRA to induce p53-dependent apoptosis in HBV-infected hepatocytes. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line#Cell Survival#DNA Methylation#Down-Regulation#Genes, Tumor Suppressor#Hepatocytes#Humans#Oncogene Proteins#Trans-Activators#Tretinoin'
b'BACKGROUND: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) occurs in both adults and children but the response to chemotherapy and survival is significantly worse in the adults. We aimed to study whether the expression of immune system-associated miRNAs would differ between adult and pediatric patients with ALL at the time of diagnosis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Inflammation-associated miRNA analysis was performed in 19 adults and 79 pediatric patients with ALL and involved miR-10, miR-15, miR-16, miR-17-92 cluster, miR-33, miR-146a, miR-150, miR-155, miR-181a, miR-222, miR-223, and miR-339. MiRNAs were first analyzed by miRNA microarray and thereafter validated by qRT-PCR. Sufficient RNA for qRT-PCR was available for 42 pediatric and 19 adult patients.RESULTS: Of the studied miRNAs, only miR-18a differed significantly in microarray analysis between adult and pediatric ALL, being lower in children (FC, -3.74; P, 0.0037). Results were confirmed by qRT-PCR (down-regulated in pediatric patients, P 0.003161). The other members of the miR-17-92 cluster did not differ significantly.CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric and adult patients with ALL have remarkably similar patterns of immune-cell-associated miRNAs in their bone marrow at diagnosis. However, the low expression of miR-18a in pediatric ALL is interesting and demands further study. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Bone Marrow#Case-Control Studies#Child#Child, Preschool#Chromosome Aberrations#Computational Biology#Female#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Leukemic#Humans#Infant#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#RNA Interference#RNA, Messenger#Reproducibility of Results'
b"BACKGROUND: Immunosuppressive therapy (IST) is the standard treatment for aplastic anemia (AA) children who lack a sibling donor, but the clinical response rate to IST varies. Predictors of response to IST are valuable for stratifying AA patients and making clinical decisions.METHODS: The serum interleukin (IL)-6 levels of 41 AA patients were measured at the time of diagnosis and the response rate of the patients to IST was evaluated at 3, 6, and 12 months after IST. Receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to calculate the predictive value of initial IL-6 levels in determining response at 6 months after IST.RESULTS: The initial IL-6 levels were significant higher in responders than nonresponders at 6 months after IST (211.89 vs. 18.09\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL; P=0.005), using 36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL as a threshold, there were 80% sensitivity and 81% specificity for discriminating responders and nonresponders to IST. Patients with initial high IL-6 level (>36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL) have favorable response rates than those with initial low IL-6 level (<36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL) at 3, 6, and 12 months after IST (P<0.01).CONCLUSION: High levels of IL-6 at the time of diagnosis predict a favorable response to IST in children with AA and this may be helpful for patient's stratification and clinical decisions. labels: #Adolescent#Anemia, Aplastic#Biomarkers#Blood Cell Count#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Interleukin-6#Male#ROC Curve#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome"
b'Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is a widely used agent as the first choice of treatment of immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). IVIG has several side effects, but it is a relatively safe treatment. Life-threatening thrombosis has been reported in adults and rarely in children. We report a case of a 14-year-old boy with dural venous sinus thrombosis and pulmonary embolism after treatment with IVIG for ITP. The patient was treated with low-molecular-weight heparin followed by warfarin and the symptoms were recovered. If a patient with ITP shows mental change or respiratory difficulty, we should consider thrombosis as well as hemorrhage. labels: #Adolescent#Anticoagulants#Biopsy#Bone Marrow#Hematologic Tests#Heparin, Low-Molecular-Weight#Humans#Immunoglobulins, Intravenous#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Male#Pulmonary Embolism#Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic#Sinus Thrombosis, Intracranial#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Venous Thrombosis#Warfarin'
b'BACKGROUND: Patients managed nonoperatively have been excluded from risk-adjusted benchmarking programs, including the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP). Consequently, optimal performance evaluation is not possible for specialties like emergency general surgery (EGS) where nonoperative management is common. We developed a multi-institutional EGS clinical data registry within ACS NSQIP that includes patients managed nonoperatively to evaluate variability in nonoperative care across hospitals and identify gaps in performance assessment that occur when only operative cases are considered.METHODS: Using ACS NSQIP infrastructure and methodology, surgical consultations for acute appendicitis, acute cholecystitis, and small bowel obstruction (SBO) were sampled at 13 hospitals that volunteered to participate in the EGS clinical data registry. Standard NSQIP variables and 16 EGS-specific variables were abstracted with 30-day follow-up. To determine the influence of complications in nonoperative patients, rates of adverse outcomes were identified, and hospitals were ranked by performance with and then without including nonoperative cases.RESULTS: Two thousand ninety-one patients with EGS diagnoses were included, 46.6% with appendicitis, 24.3% with cholecystitis, and 29.1% with SBO. The overall rate of nonoperative management was 27.4%, 6.6% for appendicitis, 16.5% for cholecystitis, and 69.9% for SBO. Despite comprising only 27.4% of patients in the EGS pilot, nonoperative management accounted for 67.7% of deaths, 34.3% of serious morbidities, and 41.8% of hospital readmissions. After adjusting for patient characteristics and hospital diagnosis mix, addition of nonoperative management to hospital performance assessment resulted in 12 of 13 hospitals changing performance rank, with four hospitals changing by three or more positions.CONCLUSION: This study identifies a gap in performance evaluation when nonoperative patients are excluded from surgical quality assessment and demonstrates the feasibility of incorporating nonoperative care into existing surgical quality initiatives. Broadening the scope of hospital performance assessment to include nonoperative management creates an opportunity to improve the care of all surgical patients, not just those who have an operation.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Care management, level IV; Epidemiologic, level III. labels: #Appendicitis#Benchmarking#Cholecystitis#Emergency Medicine#Female#General Surgery#Humans#Intestinal Obstruction#Intestine, Small#Male#Pilot Projects#Quality Improvement'
b'BACKGROUND: Child abuse remains a national epidemic that has detrimental effects if unnoticed in the clinical setting. Extreme cases of child abuse, or nonaccidental trauma (NAT), have large financial burdens associated with them due to treatment costs and long-term effects of abuse. Clinicians who have additional training and experience with pediatric trauma are better equipped to detect signs of NAT and have more experience reporting it. This additional training and experience can be measured by using the American College of Surgeons (ACS) Pediatric Trauma verification. It is hypothesized that ACS-verified pediatric trauma centers (vPTCs) have an increased prevalence of NAT because of this additional experience and training relative to non-ACS vPTCs.METHODS: The National Trauma Data Bank, for the years 2007 to 2014, was utilized to compare the prevalence of NAT between ACS vPTCs relative to non-ACS vPTCs to produce both crude and Injury Severity Score adjusted prevalence ratio estimates.RESULTS: The majority of NAT cases across all hospitals were male (58.3%). The mean age of the NAT cases was 2.3 years with a mean Injury Severity Score (ISS) of 11.1. The most common payment method was Medicaid (64.4%). The prevalence of NAT was 1.82 (1.74-1.90) times higher among ACS vPTCs and 1.81 (1.73-1.90) after adjusting for ISS.CONCLUSIONS: The greater prevalence of NAT at vPTCs likely represents a more accurate measure of NAT among pediatric trauma patients, likely due to more experience and training of clinicians.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic/Epidemiological, Level II. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child Abuse#Child, Preschool#Female#Hospitals, Pediatric#Humans#Infant#Injury Severity Score#Linear Models#Male#Medicaid#Prevalence#Trauma Centers#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Direct-to-implant breast reconstruction offers time-saving advantages over two-stage techniques. However, use of direct-to-implant reconstruction remains limited, in part, because of concerns over complication rates., The authors' aim was to compare 2-year complications and patient-reported outcomes for direct-to-implant versus tissue expander/implant reconstruction.METHODS: Patients undergoing immediate direct-to-implant or tissue expander/implant reconstruction were enrolled in the Mastectomy Reconstruction Outcomes Consortium, an 11-center prospective cohort study. Complications and patient-reported outcomes (using the BREAST-Q questionnaire) were evaluated. Outcomes were compared using mixed-effects regression models, adjusting for demographic and clinical characteristics.RESULTS: Of 1427 patients, 99 underwent direct-to-implant reconstruction and 1328 underwent tissue expander/implant reconstruction. Two years after reconstruction and controlling for covariates, direct-to-implant and tissue expander/implant reconstruction patients did not show statistically significant differences in any complications, including infection. Multivariable analyses found no significant differences between the two groups in patient-reported outcomes, with the exception of sexual well-being, where direct-to-implant patients fared better than the tissue expander/implant cohort (p = 0.047).CONCLUSIONS: This prospective, multi-institutional study showed no statistically significant differences between direct-to-implant and tissue expander/implant reconstruction, in either complication rates or most patient-reported outcomes at 2 years postoperatively. Direct-to-implant reconstruction appears to be a viable alternative to expander/implant reconstruction. This analysis provides new evidence on which to base reconstructive decisions.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, II. labels: #Adult#Breast Implantation#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Logistic Models#Mastectomy#Middle Aged#Patient Reported Outcome Measures#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Regression Analysis#Tissue Expansion"
b'BACKGROUND: The double capsule is a complication mostly described in aggressive macrotextured implants. Mechanical shear stress applied onto an immature periprosthetic capsule has been linked to their formation. The authors aim to demonstrate the role of bacterial phenotype and biofilm in the development of the double capsule.METHODS: Seven double capsules formed at the interface of macrotextured breast expander implants were studied using scanning electron microscopy. Two samples for each surface of the inner capsule layer (the prosthesis interface and the intercapsular space) were analyzed for bacteria cell size, bacterial density, and biofilm deposition.RESULTS: Although all routine bacterial cultures were negative, the prosthesis interface had both higher bacteria load and biofilm deposition compared with the intercapsular space (Mann-Whitney U test, p = 0.004 and p = 0.008, respectively). Moreover, bacteria cell sizes were significantly smaller at the prosthesis interface in six of seven samples. Comparison of bacteria density and biofilm dispersion showed an increase of biofilm extracellular matrix deposition over 2000 cells/mm (linear regression, p = 0.0025). These results indicate a common trend among bacteria species.CONCLUSIONS: Bacterial expression between the different surfaces of the double capsule displays significant differences; bacteria at the prosthesis interface are mostly in a biofilm state, whereas they demonstrate a planktonic phenotype at the intercapsular space. When a sufficient amount of bacteria are present at a specific location, quorum sensing may trigger a biofilm phenotypic switch in planktonic bacteria cells. Biofilm formation may alter capsule formation through immune response, thereby weakening capsule strength and facilitating extracellular matrix delamination and double-capsule formation.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adult#Biofilms#Breast Implantation#Breast Implants#Female#Foreign-Body Reaction#Humans#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Tissue Expansion#Tissue Expansion Devices'
b'BACKGROUND: Modern breast reconstruction often involves microvascular reconstruction. The most common recipient vessels are the internal mammary artery and vein. Recently, there has been great focus on efficiency, but much of this emphasis has been directed to faster flap harvest or recovery protocols for expeditious discharge. An equally important aspect is internal mammary vessel preparation.METHODS: Breast reconstruction was performed in 415 patients (715 breasts) using autologous tissue (850 flaps) from 2012 to 2016. In 97.6 percent of these breast reconstructions, the internal mammary vessels were used. The preparation of these vessels was routinely performed using the five-step technique described here.RESULTS: Internal mammary preparation time ranged from 7 to 45 minutes (median, 15 minutes). The procedure involves five simplified steps, as follows: step 1, the rib is exposed by splitting the pectoralis major muscle; step 2, the perichondrium anterior to the cartilage is incised and dissected away from the cartilage; step 3, the cartilage is removed with a rongeur; step 4, laterally the perichondrium is elevated and incised (under direct vision, this perichondrium is then split directly over the vessels and the cranial and caudal flaps are resected); and step 5, careful dissection is performed on the artery and vein.CONCLUSIONS: Safe preparation of recipient vessels in microvascular reconstruction is essential for success. In modern breast reconstruction, the internal mammary artery and vein are typically used. Exposure of these vessels should be predictable and efficient. The authors have found that a systematic approach using the above five steps accomplishes these goals. labels: #Dissection#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mammary Arteries#Operative Time#Surgical Flaps'
b"The American Society of Plastic Surgeons commissioned a multistakeholder Work Group to develop recommendations for autologous breast reconstruction with abdominal flaps. A systematic literature review was performed and a stringent appraisal process was used to rate the quality of relevant scientific research. The Work Group assigned to draft this guideline was unable to find evidence of superiority of one technique over the other (deep inferior epigastric perforator versus pedicled transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous flap) in autologous tissue reconstruction of the breast after mastectomy. Presently, based on the evidence reported here, the Work Group recommends that surgeons contemplating breast reconstruction on their next patient consider the following: the patient's preferences and risk factors, the setting in which the surgeon works (academic versus community practice), resources available, the evidence shown in this guideline, and, equally important, the surgeon's technical expertise. Although theoretical superiority of one technique may exist, this remains to be reported in the literature, and future methodologically robust studies are needed. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Epigastric Arteries#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mastectomy#Patient Satisfaction#Postoperative Complications#Rectus Abdominis#Reoperation#Surgical Flaps"
b"BACKGROUND: In their descriptions of the ideal breast, most studies have focused primarily on the dimensions, shape, and proportions. The distance between the breasts has only very rarely been considered. The intermammary distance and the medial symmetry between the breasts are important parts of the outcome of surgery and have a strong bearing on patient satisfaction. However, the control surgeons have over these factors is only relative, and depends heavily on the underlying anatomical characteristics of the patients.METHODS: Eighty-six patients undergoing breast augmentation, breast reduction, or mastopexy and breast reconstruction with separated or asymmetric breasts underwent fat grafting in the medial quadrants. Intermammary distances were measured before fat grafting and 12 months later. Complications were also recorded.RESULTS: This technique obtained a statistically significant reduction in the mean intermammary distance (p<0.0001) from 3 \xc2\xb1 0.6 cm (range, 1.6 to 5 cm) to 1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.4 cm (range, 1 to 2.8 cm) at 12-month follow-up. There were no major complications: one capsular contracture in a breast reconstruction requiring capsulotomy and an oil cyst requiring aspiration were reported.CONCLUSION: The authors' technique allows safe remodeling of the medial cleavage of the breast, reducing the intermammary distance and optimizing the symmetry between the breasts.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, IV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Breast#Esthetics#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Mammaplasty#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Satisfaction#Prospective Studies#Subcutaneous Fat#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: The traditional abdominoplasty is one of the most common surgical procedures performed. This study evaluates the impact of different surgical techniques and clinical patient factors on abdominoplasty outcomes.METHODS: A retrospective review of consecutive patients undergoing abdominoplasty was performed.RESULTS: Seven hundred seventy-nine patients with a mean age of 43.7 years and a body mass index of 27 kg/m underwent abdominoplasty. The majority were women (92.9 percent), and massive weight loss was present in 34.8 percent. Abdominoplasty techniques included traditional (59.4 percent), belt lipectomy (17.9 percent), fleur-de-lis (16.4 percent), umbilical float (9.2 percent), and mini-abdominoplasty (2.8 percent). Half of the study population [n = 384 (49.3 percent)] had concurrent surgical procedures. Total complications (23.0 percent) consisted primarily of wound- and scar-related complications (15.3 percent). Approximately 60 percent of patients received heparin chemoprophylaxis, with overall thromboembolic and hematoma rates less than 1 percent. Univariate analysis revealed that massive weight loss (p = 0.04), fleur-de-lis (p = 0.03) or belt lipectomy (p = 0.05) techniques, and concurrent medial thigh lift(p<0.001) all significantly increased complications. Previous scars, amount of weight loss, operative time, liposuction, and other concurrent procedures did not affect total complications. Male sex (OR, 1.96; p = 0.04), fleur-de-lis technique (OR, 1.71; p = 0.04), and medial thigh lift (OR, 3.3; p<0.001) were independent risk factors for total postoperative complications.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that abdominoplasty alone or in combination with liposuction and aesthetic breast surgery can be performed safely, with an acceptable complication profile.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, III. labels: #Abdominoplasty#Adult#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hospitals, General#Humans#Lipectomy#Male#Mammaplasty#Massachusetts#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies'
b'BACKGROUND: There are instances where small or large pockets are filled with diced cartilage in the nose, without use of wrapping materials. For this purpose, 1-cc commercial syringes were used. The obtained results were partial and incomplete. For better and improved results, the author designed new syringes, with two different sizes, which compress the diced cartilage for injection.METHODS: The author presents his experience accrued over the past 12 years with 2366 primary, 749 secondary, 67 cleft lip and nose, and a total of 3182 rhinoplasties, using his new syringe design, which compresses diced cartilage and injects the diced cartilages as a conglutinate mass, simulating carved costal cartilage, but a malleable one.RESULTS: In 3125 patients, the take of cartilage graft was complete (98.2 percent) and a smooth surface was obtained, giving them a natural appearance. In 21 patients (0.65 percent), there was partial resorption of cartilage. Correction was performed with touch-up surgery by reinjection of a small amount of diced cartilage. In 36 patients (1.13 percent), there was overcorrection that, 1 year later, was treated by simple rasping.CONCLUSIONS: Compared with diced cartilage wrapped with Surgicel or fascia, the amount of injected cartilage graft is predictable because it consists purely of cartilage. The injected diced cartilage, because it is compressed and becomes a conglutinated mass, resembles a wood chip and simulates carved cartilage. It is superior to carved cartilage in that it is moldable, time saving, and gives a good result with no late show or warping. The injection takes only a few minutes. labels: #Adult#Cartilage#Female#Humans#Injections#Rhinoplasty#Syringes'
b'Alar flare is a common feature that contributes to the width of the lower third of the nose. In the right patient, alar flare reduction can improve nasal harmony and facial aesthetic balance; however, it is also difficult to correct if conducted inappropriately or overzealously. The unique anatomy and diverse morphologies of the alar lobule, and the dynamic relationship between flare and changes in tip projection, must be considered. The authors provide guidelines for flare reduction: when it is appropriate and how to tailor the excision pattern to safely and effectively refine nasal width. Alar flare is classified into three types according to alar rim shape on basal view analysis. By designing the excision pattern based on specific flare type, the lower third of the nose is narrowed without creating an operated appearance.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Nose#Rhinoplasty'
b'Despite the growth of technically more sophisticated skin resurfacing modalities, such as those based on light, radiofrequency, and ultrasound, chemical peel procedures have risen 5 to 25 percent over the past year alone. Chemexfoliation carries historical significance and has markedly evolved since its inception in ancient times. As a result of plastic surgery and dermatologic advancements, modern-day chemexfoliation offers plastic surgeons additional safe and effective options for patients with rhytides, dyschromias, and other signs of light- and environment-induced skin damage. This review discusses the historical evolution of chemexfoliation procedures, highlights modern-day practice habits, and touches on the clinically relevant applications of chemical peels. labels: #Chemexfoliation#Europe#History, 16th Century#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#History, 21st Century#History, Ancient#Humans#Rejuvenation#United States'
b'The treatment of nasomaxillary hypoplasia is challenging. The phenotype of Binder "syndrome" includes the following: midfacial hypoplasia, class III malocclusion, small or absent anterior nasal spine, flattened nose, horizontal nostrils, short columella, acute nasolabial angle, and a flat frontonasal angle. A staged approach is used, with orthognathic surgery to achieve vertical maxillary length and sagittal advancement, followed by rhinoplasty aimed to increase nasal tip projection, rotation, and columellar length. This article details the diagnosis and treatment of nasomaxillary hypoplasia, demonstrating the senior author\'s (D.M.S.) preferred approach and technical steps.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adolescent#Female#Humans#Maxillofacial Abnormalities#Orthognathic Surgical Procedures#Rhinoplasty'
b'BACKGROUND: Wide variations in fat graft survival have been reported. The authors hypothesize that treating the adipose tissue on Telfa gauze creates a processed lipoaspirate with a more functional adipokine profile that improves fat graft survival.METHODS: Suction-assisted lipoaspirate was harvested from humans and was either processed by centrifugation, rolled on Telfa gauze, or left unprocessed. Progenitor cell populations were quantified and characterized by flow cytometry. Glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase assay was used to measure the functional adipocytes. The lipoaspirates were grafted into (n = 45) wild-type mice and harvested to assess fat graft persistence. Vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor-BB secretions were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique.RESULTS: Centrifuged lipoaspirate had a greater number of progenitor cells per gram of tissue than Telfa-processed and unprocessed lipoaspirate. However, Telfa-processed lipoaspirate had a greater number of functional adipocytes (0.104 U/ml) than centrifuged (0.080 U/ml) and unprocessed lipoaspirate (0.083 U/ml) on glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase assay (p<0.05). After 10 weeks of grafting, it had greater fat graft persistence (70.9 \xc2\xb1 6.2 percent) than centrifuged (56.7 \xc2\xb1 5.5 percent) and unprocessed lipoaspirate (42.2 \xc2\xb1 2.7 percent) (p<0.05). It also maintained a greater secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor-BB at weeks 1 and 2 than centrifuged and unprocessed lipoaspirate. Furthermore, CD31 staining demonstrated an increase in vascular density of the Telfa-processed lipoaspirate at week 2 compared with the centrifuged lipoaspirate (37 \xc2\xb1 1 percent and 14 \xc2\xb1 4 percent per high-power field; p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Lipoaspirate processing technique has a significant impact on fat graft survival rate. Increasing the number of functional adipocytes by processing the fat on Telfa gauze may augment the secretion of angiogenic and mitogenic adipokines within the graft, thereby improving its survivability.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adipocytes#Adipokines#Adult#Animals#Biomarkers#Centrifugation#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique#Graft Survival#Humans#Lipectomy#Male#Mice#Middle Aged#Specimen Handling#Subcutaneous Fat#Transplantation, Heterologous'
b"BACKGROUND: Understanding the precise anatomy in experimental animals is crucial for correct design of research projects. Rats are commonly used for scientific research in plastic surgery because of their availability in academic institutions, moderate cost, and sizable vessels for microsurgical procedures. In past publications about rat anatomy, lymphatic mapping has been limited and incomplete. The aim of this study was to comprehensively map the superficial lymphatic system in the rat.METHODS: Twenty-seven Sprague-Dawley rats were used for this study. Indocyanine green fluorescence lymphography was used to identify the lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes. Under general anaesthesia, indocyanine green was injected intradermally at multiple spots along the dorsal and medial midlines, front and hind paws, ears, and tail. The course of the lymphatic vessels was traced on the skin with a marker pen and photographed. The superficial lymphatic vessels in each rat were sketched on a graphic template and all of the templates were superimposed using graphics software to define the relationship between the lymphatic vessel and sentinel node.RESULTS: Indocyanine green fluorescence lymphography was able to demonstrate the superficial lymphatic vessels in the rat. Six groups of regional lymph node/s were identified and lymphatic pathways to those nodes delineated. The authors' lymphosome concept was successfully applied to the rat, with six lymphosomes identified.CONCLUSIONS: The authors succeeded in performing superficial lymphatic mapping in the rat. The authors' anatomical findings can provide further information about the lymphatic system in the normal state and promote understanding of pathologic changes generated by surgical manipulation for future studies. labels: #Animals#Female#Fluorescent Dyes#Indocyanine Green#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Vessels#Lymphography#Male#Models, Animal#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Skin"
b'BACKGROUND: Although surgical excision and intralesional collagenase injection are mainstays in Dupuytren disease treatment, no effective medical therapy exists for recurrent disease. Compound 21, a selective agonist of the angiotensin II type 2 receptor, has been shown to protect against fibrosis in models of myocardial infarction and stroke. The authors investigated the potential use of compound 21 in the treatment of Dupuytren disease.METHODS: Human dermal fibroblasts were treated in vitro with compound 21 and assessed for viability using a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay, migration by means of scratch assay, and profibrotic gene transcription by means of quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Compound 21 effects in vivo were assessed using a xenograft model. Dupuytren disease cord specimens from patients undergoing open partial fasciectomy were divided into two segments. Segments were implanted under the dorsal skin of nude mouse pairs. Beginning on day 5, one mouse from each pair received daily intraperitoneal injections of compound 21 (10 \xce\xbcg/kg/day), and the other received vehicle. On day 10, segments were explanted and submitted for immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: Human dermal fibroblasts treated with compound 21 displayed decreased migration and decreased gene expression of connective tissue growth factor, fibroblast specific protein-1, transforming growth factor-\xce\xb21, Smad3, and Smad4. Dupuytren disease segments from compound 21-treated mice demonstrated significantly reduced alpha-smooth muscle actin and Ki67 staining, with increased density of CD31 staining vessels.CONCLUSIONS: Compound 21 significantly decreases expression of profibrotic genes and decreases myofibroblast proliferation as indicated by reduced Ki67 and alpha-smooth muscle actin expression. These findings support compound 21 as a potential novel treatment modality for Dupuytren disease. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Biomarkers#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Cells, Cultured#Drug Administration Schedule#Dupuytren Contracture#Female#Fibroblasts#Humans#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Random Allocation#Receptor, Angiotensin, Type 2#Sulfonamides#Thiophenes'
b'BACKGROUND: The Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant associated with proximal row carpectomy has been used to treat symptomatic advanced carpal collapse, widening the indications of proximal row carpectomy to patients with capitate head arthritis. The authors retrospectively compared their case series of implant versus carpectomy alone, analyzing whether prosthetic implant outcomes could be similar to those of proximal row carpectomy even with a higher stage of osteoarthritis.METHODS: Fifty-seven patients who underwent surgery for wrist osteoarthritis (minimum follow-up, 2 years) were selected retrospectively. Twenty-five patients (scapholunate advanced collapse/scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse stage III to IV and Kienb\xc3\xb6ck disease stage IV) underwent proximal row carpectomy plus Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant (group A); 32 patients (scapholunate advanced collapse/scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse stage I to II and Kienb\xc3\xb6ck disease stage III) underwent carpectomy alone (group B). Mean follow-up was 33 months. Patients were evaluated clinically and radiographically. Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire scores were assessed.RESULTS: Group A showed consistent pain relief (visual analogue scale score of 2), while preserving wrist mobility (flexion, 27 degrees; extension, 33 degrees) and grip strength (54 percent compared with the contralateral side). Average Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire score was 20, and average Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation score was 28. No statistically significant difference was observed between groups for all outcomes, except for better extension (p<0.05) in group B.CONCLUSIONS: Even starting from a higher grade of osteoarthritis, Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant plus proximal row carpectomy showed satisfying results, compared with those obtained with just carpectomy. Data show that indications for proximal row carpectomy can be widened by using the implant, without worsening outcomes. The implant could be a useful alternative to more aggressive salvage procedures in case of capitate head and lunate fossa osteoarthritis involvement.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement#Carbon#Carpal Bones#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Joint Prosthesis#Male#Middle Aged#Osteoarthritis#Radiography#Retrospective Studies#Wrist Joint'
b"BACKGROUND: The effects of orthognathic surgery go beyond objective cephalometric correction of facial and dental disproportion and malocclusion, respectively. The authors hypothesized that there is tangible improvement following surgery that alters publicly perceived personality traits and emotions.METHODS: The authors used Amazon.com's Mechanical Turk (MTurk), a crowdsourcing tool, to determine how preoperative and postoperative images of orthognathic surgery patients were perceived on six personality traits and six emotional expressions based on posteroanterior and lateral photographs. Blinded respondents provided demographic information and were randomly assigned to one of two sets of 20 photographs (10 subjects before and after surgery).RESULTS: Data on 20 orthognathic surgery patients were collected from 476 individuals. The majority of participants were female (52.6 percent), 18 to 39 years old (67.9 percent), Caucasian (76.6 percent), had some college or technical training or graduated college (72.7 percent), and had an annual income between $20,000 and $99,999 (74.6 percent). A paired t test analysis found that subjects were perceived significantly more favorably after orthognathic surgery in 12 countenance categories: more dominant, trustworthy, friendly, intelligent, attractive, and happy; and also less threatening, angry, surprised, sad, afraid, and disgusted (p<0.05). Raters with the highest annual income perceived a greater magnitude of dominance after surgery than those earning less (p<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: There is significant improvement in the countenance of patients after orthognathic surgery, with both perceived personality traits and emotions deemed more favorable. Additional work is needed to better understand the physiologic underpinnings of such findings. Crowdsourcing technology offers a unique opportunity for surgeons to gather data regarding laypeople's perceptions of surgical outcomes in areas such as orthognathic surgery. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Crowdsourcing#Emotions#Facial Expression#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Orthognathic Surgical Procedures#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Personality#Postoperative Period#Preoperative Period#Single-Blind Method#Social Perception#United States#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: The relationships between hospital/surgeon characteristics and operative outcomes and cost are being scrutinized increasingly. In patients with craniosynostosis specifically, the relationship between hospital volume and outcomes has yet to be characterized.METHODS: Subjects undergoing craniosynostosis surgery between 2004 and 2015 were identified in the Pediatric Health Information System. Outcomes were compared between two exposure groups, those undergoing treatment at a high-volume institution (>40 cases per year), and those undergoing treatment at a low-volume institution (40 cases per year). Primary outcomes were any complication, prolonged length of stay, and increased total cost.RESULTS: Over 13,000 patients (n = 13,112) from 49 institutions met inclusion criteria. In multivariate regression analyses, subjects treated in high-volume centers were less likely to experience any complication (OR, 0.764; p<0.001), were less likely to have an extended length of stay (OR, 0.624; p<0.001), and were less likely to have increased total cost (OR, 0.596; p<0.001). Subjects undergoing strip craniectomy in high-volume centers were also less likely to have any complication (OR, 0.708; p = 0.018) or increased total cost (OR, 0.51; p<0.001). Subjects undergoing midvault reconstruction in high-volume centers were less likely to experience any complications (OR, 0.696; p = 0.002), have an extended length of stay (OR, 0.542; p<0.001), or have increased total cost (OR, 0.495; p<0.001).CONCLUSION: In hospitals performing a high volume of craniosynostosis surgery, subjects had significantly decreased odds of experiencing a complication, prolonged length of stay, or increased total cost compared with those undergoing treatment in low-volume institutions.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III. labels: #Child, Preschool#Craniosynostoses#Databases, Factual#Female#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Hospitals, Pediatric#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Length of Stay#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Orthopedic Procedures#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#United States'
b'To make three-dimensional computer-assisted elastic models for the face, we decided on five requirements: (1) an elastic texture like skin and subcutaneous tissue; (2) the ability to take pen marking for incisions; (3) the ability to be cut with a surgical knife; (4) the ability to keep stitches in place for a long time; and (5) a layered structure. After testing many elastic solvents, we have made realistic three-dimensional computer-assisted two-layer elastic models of the face and cleft lip from the computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging stereolithographic data. The surface layer is made of polyurethane and the inner layer is silicone. Using this elastic model, we taught residents and young doctors how to make several typical local flaps and to perform cheiloplasty. They could experience realistic simulated surgery and understand three-dimensional movement of the flaps. labels: #Cleft Lip#Face#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Infant#Japan#Lip#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Models, Anatomic#Polyurethanes#Printing, Three-Dimensional#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Silicones#Simulation Training#Surgical Flaps#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b"BACKGROUND: Open tibia fractures are commonly stratified by the Gustilo classification, an orthopedic grading system that does not incorporate the presence of arterial injury when limb perfusion is intact. In the authors' experience, however, the presence of arterial injury appears to negatively impact microsurgical outcomes.METHODS: In a retrospective review of 806 lower extremity reconstructions between 1979 and 2016, 361 soft-tissue flaps performed for Gustilo type IIIB/C coverage met inclusion criteria. Patient demographics, flap characteristics, and outcomes were analyzed.RESULTS: Most patients suffered type IIIB [n = 332 (91.9 percent)] injuries; 29 (8.0 percent) had type IIIC injuries. Preoperative angiography [n = 243 (67.3 percent)]demonstrated arterial injury in 126 (51.8 percent); 27 arterial injuries were identified intraoperatively; and the overall incidence was 153 of 361 (42.4 percent). Complications occurred in 143 flaps (39.6 percent) and included 37 partial losses (10.2 percent) and 31 total losses (8.6 percent). Injured recipient arteries [n = 62 (17.2 percent)] had more complications (p = 0.004); specifically, increased take-backs (p = 0.009). Decreasing vessel runoff increased the risk of complications (p = 0.025), take-backs (p = 0.007), and total flap failures (p = 0.024) accordingly. Specifically, among grade IIIB injuries, controlling for age, sex, time since injury, and vein number, single-vessel runoff was associated with higher rates of complications (relative risk, 3.07; p = 0.012), take-backs (relative risk, 3.43; p = 0.013), and total flap failures (relative risk, 4.80; p = 0.010) compared with three-vessel runoff.CONCLUSIONS: Arterial injury was common among Gustilo type IIIB patients and correlated with increased reconstructive complications. Nonischemic arterial injury appears to negatively impact reconstructive outcomes and should be accounted for when considering free tissue transfer for lower extremity salvage. The authors propose a 3-2-1 modification of the Gustilo type IIIB classification to incorporate degree of arterial injury, as it appears to add prognostic value and certainly influences the reconstructive plan.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, IV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arteries#Child#Female#Fibula#Fractures, Open#Free Tissue Flaps#Humans#Leg Injuries#Limb Salvage#Male#Middle Aged#Popliteal Artery#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Tibial Arteries#Tibial Fractures#Trauma Severity Indices#Treatment Outcome#Vascular System Injuries#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: Many plastic surgeons use social media as a marketing tool to attract and retain patients, but information about how patients use social media and their preferred types of plastic surgery posts have been lacking.METHODS: To investigate patients' preferred social media networks and the type of posts they wished to see, a cross-sectional study was conducted in a single aesthetic practice of two plastic surgeons by surveying 100 consecutive patients.RESULTS: The age of the patients averaged 44.4 years (range, 17 to 78 years). Facebook had the greatest patient use and engagement, with YouTube second in use, and Instagram second in number of engaged users. Over half used Pinterest, but with little daily engagement. Only one-fourth used Snapchat, but the percentage of users who were highly engaged was second only to Facebook. The least popular network was Twitter, with the fewest patient users and least engagement. Social media played a minor role compared with the practice's Web site in both influencing patients to choose the practice and providing information on the day of the appointment. Patients most wanted to see posts on a plastic surgeon's social media platform related to practice information, before-and-after photographs, and contests. Articles about plastic surgery held the least interest. Among five types of Web site content, patients expressed most interest in before-and-after photographs.CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to articulate the plastic surgery patient perspective regarding social media. The findings aim to help plastic surgeons maximize their influence on their target audience. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#California#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Male#Marketing of Health Services#Middle Aged#Patient Preference#Physician-Patient Relations#Social Media#Surgery, Plastic#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and Plastic Surgery Milestone Project has identified practice-based learning and improvement, which involves systematically analyzing current practices and implementing changes, as a core competency in residency education. In surgical care, complication reporting is an essential component of practice-based learning and improvement as complications are analyzed in morbidity and mortality conference for quality improvement. Unfortunately, current methods for capturing a comprehensive profile of complications may significantly underestimate the true occurrence of complications. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to evaluate an intervention for complication reporting and compare this to current practice, in a plastic surgery training program.METHODS: This is a preintervention and postintervention study evaluating resident reporting of complications on a plastic surgery service. The intervention was an online event reporting system developed by department leadership and patient safety experts. The cohorts consisted of all patients undergoing surgery during two separate 3-month blocks bridged by an implementation period. A trained reviewer recorded complications, and this served as the reference standard. Fisher's exact test was used for binary comparisons.RESULTS: There were 32 complications detected in 219 patients from June to August of 2015 and 35 complications in 202 patients from October to December of 2015. The proportion of complications reported in the preintervention group was nine of 32 (28.1 percent). After the intervention, this significantly increased to 32 of 35 (91.4 percent) (p<0.001).CONCLUSION: An intervention using an event reporting system, supported by departmental leadership, led to significant improvements in complication reporting by plastic surgery residents. labels: #Clinical Competence#Data Collection#Documentation#Humans#Internet#Internship and Residency#Medical Records Systems, Computerized#Missouri#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Pediatrics#Postoperative Complications#Quality Improvement#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgery, Plastic"
b"Virtual reality and augmented reality devices have recently been described in the surgical literature. The authors have previously explored various iterations of these devices, and although they show promise, it has become clear that virtual reality and/or augmented reality devices alone do not adequately meet the demands of surgeons. The solution may lie in a hybrid technology known as mixed reality, which merges many virtual reality and augmented realty features. Microsoft's HoloLens, the first commercially available mixed reality device, provides surgeons intraoperative hands-free access to complex data, the real environment, and bidirectional communication. This report describes the use of HoloLens in the operating room to improve decision-making and surgical workflow. The pace of mixed reality-related technological development will undoubtedly be rapid in the coming years, and plastic surgeons are ideally suited to both lead and benefit from this advance. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Holography#Humans#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgery, Computer-Assisted#User-Computer Interface#Workflow"
b"RATIONALE: Giant fibrovascular polyps (GFVPs) found in the hypopharynx are exceedingly rare. These are benign tumors which are identified by CT or MRI and usually treated based on symptoms. Even more rarely, pathology may identify one of these masses as an atypical lipomatous tumor (ALT). This paper will present a case of an ALT of the hypopharynx that was originally classified as a GFVP, highlighting the difficulty in distinguishing between them and the importance of making the correct diagnosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: An 84-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 6-month history of a pedunculated hypopharyngeal growth, dysphagia, and intermittent dyspnea.DIAGNOSES: The mass was characterized as a GFVP by barium swallow and MRI.INTERVENTIONS: The hypopharyngeal mass was resected for obstructive symptoms and to confirm the diagnosis. Final pathology found the mass to be more consistent with an atypical lipomatous tumor (ALT).OUTCOMES: The patient's dysphagia and dyspnea resolved. He was free of recurrence at 22 months postoperative.LESSONS: Both GFVPs and ALTs are very rarely found in the hypopharynx but can be easily misclassified as one another. Imaging is useful to initially characterize the mass, but to definitively differentiate between them, pathological analysis is necessary. Although they are rare, it is important to consider both possibilities on the differential for hypopharyngeal masses. Further, accurate analysis is essential to distinguish between them because their definitive management and follow-up is different. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Deglutition Disorders#Diagnosis, Differential#Dyspnea#Humans#Hypopharyngeal Neoplasms#Lipoma#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Polyps"
b'This study aimed to explore the value of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scans in the differential diagnosis of atypical adenomatous hyperplasia, adenocarcinoma in situ, minimal invasive adenocarcinoma (MIA), and invasive adenocarcinoma (IAC), which manifested as ground glass nodules (GGNs) or mixed GGNs.Unenhanced and contrast-enhanced presurgical CT images of 136 cases of GGNs were compared. The nodules were diagnosed based on their solid portions and maximum dimensions, and the findings obtained using both contrast-enhanced and unenhanced CT images were analyzed in corroboration with the pathological diagnosis.Most (53/56) preinvasive nodules showed increased mean CT values after contrast administration. In the MIA group, after contrast administration, enlargements of the solid portions were seen in 48 nodules (48/60), and the elevation of the mean CT value was observed in 12 nodules (12/60). The vast majority of IAC nodules (29/30) showed enlargement of the solid portions after contrast administration. Moreover, for group differences, findings obtained using this approach statistically match the pathological findings.Contrast-enhanced CT scans are more useful than unenhanced CT scans for the diagnosis of GGNs, especially for pure GGNs, before surgery. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenocarcinoma in Situ#Contrast Media#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Hyperplasia#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Radiographic Image Enhancement#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: We compared the effectiveness and safety of endotracheal intubation using the GlideScope (GS) video laryngoscope, CTrach laryngeal mask airway (LMA), or Shikani optical stylet rigid laryngoscope (SOS) during elective cervical surgery.METHODS: Forty-five patients undergoing elective cervical surgery were randomly and equally assigned to endotracheal intubation via GS, LMA, or SOS airway management.RESULTS: Endotracheal intubation was successfully completed in all patients. The mean intubation times of the groups differed significantly (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01): GS, 17.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.1\xe2\x80\x8as; SOS, 40.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a13.7\xe2\x80\x8as; and LMA, 80.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a22.5\xe2\x80\x8as. The groups had similar heart rates and mean arterial pressures throughout the intubation, except that at 2\xe2\x80\x8aminutes after intubation the mean arterial pressure of the GS group (106.1\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg) was significantly higher than that of the LMA (89.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg) or SOS (89.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01). The change in C2-5 Cobb angle from baseline was significantly higher in the GS group (GS, 34.2\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.3\xc2\xb0) than the LMA (24.4\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5.8\xc2\xb0) or SOS (25.5\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a6.4\xc2\xb0); P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).CONCLUSIONS: The CTrach LMA and SOS rigid laryngoscope are effective, safe alternatives to the GS video laryngoscope for patients undergoing elective cervical surgery. labels: #Cervical Vertebrae#Female#Hemorrhage#Hoarseness#Humans#Intubation, Intratracheal#Laryngeal Masks#Laryngoscopes#Male#Middle Aged#Pain'
b'Neuroendocrine tumors of the thymus (NETTs) are rare but aggressive, and lead to poor overall survival. This retrospective study was designed to analyze factors that correlate with the prognosis of patients with NETTs.From 1999 to 2015, 41 ongoing patients with NETTs were enrolled in this study. The clinical data and outcome were compiled. Overall survival (OS) rate was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method in univariate analysis and the Cox-model was used in multivariate analysis.Of the 41 NETTs patients analyzed (31 male and 10 female), 12 were typical carcinoma, 14 were atypical carcinoma, 14 were small-cell carcinoma and, 1 was large-cell carcinoma. The median follow-up time was 29 months (range, 9.0-69.0). In total, 25 patients died of cancer-related disease by the last follow-up. The 3- and 5-year survival rates for all patients were 42.7% and 23.4%, respectively. Among the prognostic factors analyzed by multivariate analysis, low tumor grade, complete resection, and a negative chromogranin A (CgA) expression were positively correlated with survival.The surgical treatment of NETTs, CgA negative, and low grade of NETTs were associated with a statistically significant better prognosis. However, large, multicenter studies are required to fully validate these prognostic factors. labels: #Adult#Aged#Chromogranin A#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Grading#Neoplasm Staging#Neuroendocrine Tumors#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Thymus Neoplasms'
b"RATIONALE: Bilateral acute iris transillumination (BAIT) is a poorly-understood ocular syndrome in which patients present with acute iridocyclitis and pigmentary dispersion with or without ocular hypertension. The etiology of the disease remains unknown, though recent reports suggest an antecedent upper respiratory tract infection or systemic antibiotic administration may trigger the clinical syndrome.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old female was referred for a second opinion regarding her bilateral ocular pain, photophobia, and ocular hypertension. Her medical history was notable for a diagnosis of pneumonia managed with oral moxifloxacin several weeks prior to her initial presentation.DIAGNOSES: Visual acuity was 20/40 with an intraocular pressure (IOP) of 30\xe2\x80\x8ammHg in the affected eye despite maximal tolerated medical therapy. The patient had severe bilateral iris transillumination defects with posterior synechiae formation and 3+ pigment with rare cell in the anterior chamber. This constellation of findings was consistent with a diagnosis of BAIT.INTERVENTIONS: A peripheral iridotomy was placed, which mildly relieved the iris bowing, but did not affect the IOP or inflammatory reaction. The patient then underwent cataract extraction with posterior synechiolysis and ab interno trabeculotomy of the left eye with the Trabectome.OUTCOMES: The patient's IOP on the first post-operative day was 13\xe2\x80\x8ammHg, and anterior chamber inflammation was noted to be significantly reduced at post-operative week 2. The patient was recently seen at a 1-year post-operative visit and her IOP remains in the low teens on a low-dose combination topical agent.LESSONS: Ophthalmologists should remain aware of the association between systemic fluoroquinolones and acute pigmentary dispersion that can progress to glaucoma. The Trabectome remains a viable option for management of pigmentary and uveitic glaucoma resistant to medical treatment. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Cataract Extraction#Eye Pain#Female#Fluoroquinolones#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Middle Aged#Ocular Hypertension#Photophobia#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Trabeculectomy"
b'RATIONALE: Primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) is a rare disease of lymphomatous effusion in the body cavities in the absence of detectable mass and lymphadenopathy. PEL is predominantly related to the immunosuppressed patients infected with human herpes virus 8 (HHV-8). PEL-like lymphoma is negative for HHV-8 and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) unlike PEL. The pathogenesis and prognosis of PEL-like lymphoma are unclear and there is no established treatment yet.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 73-year-old male patient was admitted for evaluation of dyspnea on exertion with 1-week duration. His relevant examinations were completed.DIAGNOSES: PEL-like lymphoma was diagnosed.INTERVENTIONS: The patient received chemotherapy including rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (R-CHOP), and palliative whole-brain radiotherapy, sequentially.OUTCOMES: He died 3 months after the diagnosis.LESSON: Although the prognosis of PEL-like lymphoma may be better than PEL, our case showed poor disease course despite chemotherapy. labels: #Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Brain Neoplasms#Cardiac Tamponade#Cyclophosphamide#Doxorubicin#Dyspnea#Herpesvirus 8, Human#Humans#Immunocompetence#Lymphoma, Primary Effusion#Male#Palliative Care#Prednisone#Radiotherapy#Treatment Outcome#Vincristine'
b'RATIONALE: A 33-year-old male presented with complete weakness of the right extremities due to corona radiata infarct.PATIENT CONCERNS: The main concerns of the patient is recovery of hand function especially related to finger extension.DIAGNOSES: Right corona radiata infarct.INTERVENTIONS: He underwent physical therapy and occupational therapy at the outpatient clinic of the rehabilitation department of the same university hospital until 2 years after onset. In addition, he underwent neuromuscular electrical stimulation for the right finger extensors continuously until 4 years after onset.OUTCOMES: At 6 months after onset, the weakness of his right side recovered to subnormal state except for the right finger extensors which were completely weak. At 1.5 years after onset, the right finger extensors began to show slow and continuous recovery. At 4 years after onset, the patient showed motor recovery in the right finger extensors to the extent that he was able to move against gravity. Discontinuation of the left corticospinal tract was observed on 2-month diffusion tensor tractography (DTT); however, the integrity of this discontinuation had recovered to the primary motor cortex on 4-year DTT. On 2-month transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), no motor-evoked potential was evoked; in contrast, motor-evoked potentials were obtained at the right-hand muscle on 4-year TMS study.LESSONS: We demonstrated unusual delayed and long-term recovery of the affected finger extensors in a patient with corona radiata infarct using DTT and TMS. labels: #Adult#Brain Infarction#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Electric Stimulation Therapy#Fingers#Humans#Male#Recovery of Function#Stroke Rehabilitation#Time Factors#Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation'
b'The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic value of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging for differentiating superficial lymph nodes.Virtual touch tissue imaging (VTI) grade and shear wave velocity (SWV) were analyzed and compared in 97 patients (65 women, 32 men; mean age, 49 y; range, 23-72 y) with 97 lymph nodes [23 chronic nonspecific reactive lymph nodes (CLNs), 38 metastatic lymph nodes (MLNs), and 36 blood and lymphatic system diseases lymph nodes (BLLNs)]. The elastography characteristics in patients with CLNs, MLNs, and BLLNs were compared using the nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis test and Mann-Whitney U test for continuous variables and categorical variables. The diagnostic performance of VTI grade and SWV were evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).The median of SWV of MLNs was significantly higher (2.90\xe2\x80\x8am/s) than those of CLNs (2.15\xe2\x80\x8am/s) and BLLNs (2.52\xe2\x80\x8am/s). The VTI grade of MLNs was significantly higher than those of CLNs (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and BLLNs (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and AUC were 81.58%, 95.65%, 86.89%, and 0.904, respectively, at a cutoff level of grade IV for VTI grade in differentiating MLNs from CLNs, whereas those of SWV were 57.89%, 86.96%, 68.85%, and 0.752, respectively, at a cutoff level of 2.76\xe2\x80\x8am/s.The diagnostic performance of VTI grade was significantly higher than that of SWV in differentiating MLNs from CLNs. The diagnostic performance of VTI grade and SWV were lower intermediate in differentiating MLNs from BLLNs and in differentiating BLLNs from CLNs, and there was no significant difference between VTI grade and SWV. ARFI imaging may be a feasible method for differentiating MLNs from CLNs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Diagnosis, Differential#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Hematologic Neoplasms#Humans#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Diseases#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#Ultrasonography#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: We investigated the effects of TRPC1 on epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) in human airway in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).METHODS: A total of 94 patients who underwent lobectomy were selected and divided into COPD (49 cases) and control (45 cases) groups. Immunohistochemistry was applied to detect expression of E-cadherin and vimentin and TRPC1. Correlation of TRPC1 expression with E-cadherin and vimentin expression, and correlations of lung function indicators in COPD patients with expression of TRPC1, E-cadherin, and vimentin were analyzed. Human airway epithelial cells (16HBE) were used for cell experiments; and cigarette smoking extract (CSE) was adopted to establish the COPD model using TRPC1 recombinant plasmids and siRNA. Cells were assigned into the control, CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC, and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-TRPC1 groups. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot were implemented to detect expression of TRPC1, E-cadherin, and vimentin.RESULTS: Compared with the control group, expression of TRPC1 and vimentin significantly increased while expression of E-cadherin decreased in the COPD group, and protein expression of TRPC1 was positively correlated with the protein expression of vimentin but negatively correlated with the protein expression of E-cadherin. Patients exhibiting positive expression of TRPC1 had lower FEV1, FEV1%Pred, and FEV1/FVC, compared with the patients exhibiting negative expression of TRPC1. Compared with the control group, expression of TRPC1 and vimentin increased, whereas expression of E-cadherin decreased in the CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1, and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups. Compared with the CSE and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector groups, the expression of TRPC1 and vimentin increased but the expression of E-cadherin decreased in the CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1 group. Compared with the CSE and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups, the expression of TRPC1 and vimentin decreased but the expression of E-cadherin increased in the CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-TRPC1 group. No significant differences were observed among the CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups.CONCLUSION: Overexpression of TRPC1 in COPD promoted EMT process and TRPC1 may be a new and interesting focus for COPD new treatment in the future. labels: #Adult#Aged#Blotting, Western#Cadherins#Cells, Cultured#Epithelial Cells#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Female#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lung#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#TRPC Cation Channels#Vimentin'
b"RATIONALE: Renal complications in ankylosing spondylitis (AS) were rarely observed, and proteinuria associated with AS can be seen often due to amyloidosis in this kind of complications, while membranous nephropathy (MN) is seldom considered. This article reports a case of coexistence of AS and MN, to provide the exact relationship of these 2 entities and recognized some causes of renal involvement in AS.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 44-year-old female presented with pain of the left leg for 4 years and pedal edema for 2 weeks.DIAGNOSES: AS was diagnosed according to the patient's clinical manifestation and sacroiliitis observed on computed tomography (CT) scan. Nephrotic syndrome was found and MN was diagnosed according to kidney biopsy in which thickened capillary loops were observed with light microscopy, granular deposits of IgG along the capillary wall were observed using immunofluorescence staining, and subepithelial electron-dense deposits were observed with electron microscopy. No other secondary causes of MN were found on extensive investigations.INTERVENTION: Given the diagnoses, the patient received nonimmunosuppressive therapy for MN and adalimumab for AS.OUTCOMES: The patient got pain relief, as well as urinary protein reduction.LESSONS: This case suggested a secondary MN in association with AS and the relationship between these 2 diseases needed more concern and further illumination. labels: #Adalimumab#Adult#Celecoxib#Cyclooxygenase 2 Inhibitors#Female#Glomerulonephritis, Membranous#Humans#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha"
b"The main objective of this study is to investigate the outcome between surgical procedures and the risk of development of hypoparathyroidism followed by surgical procedure in patients with thyroid disorders.We analyzed the data acquired from Taiwan's Bureau of National Health Insurance (BNHI) research database from 1998 to 2011 and found 9316 patients with thyroid surgery. Cox regression model was used to calculate the hazard ratio (HR).A count of 314 cases (3.4%) of hypoparathyroidism was identified. The 9 years cumulated incidence of hypoparathyroidism was the highest in patient undergone bilateral total thyroidectomy (13.5%) and the lowest in the patient with unilateral subtotal thyroidectomy (1.2%). However, in the patients who had undergone unilateral subtotal, the risk was the highest in bilateral total (HR: 11.86), followed by radical thyroidectomy with unilateral neck lymph node dissection (HR: 8.56), unilateral total (HR, 4.39), and one side total and another side subtotal (HR: 2.80).The extent of thyroid resection determined the risk of development of hypoparathyroidism. It is suggested that the association of these factors is investigated in future studies. labels: #Humans#Hypoparathyroidism#Incidence#Lymph Node Excision#Postoperative Complications#Risk Factors#Taiwan#Thyroid Diseases#Thyroidectomy#Time Factors"
b'We compared the oncological outcomes of sphincter-saving resection (SSR) and abdominoperineal resection (APR) in 409 consecutive patients with very low rectal cancer (i.e., tumors within 3\xe2\x80\x8acm from the anal verge); 335 (81.9%) patients underwent APR and 74 (18.1%) underwent SSR. The APR group comprised higher proportions of men (67.5% vs 55.4%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.049) and advanced-stage patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Preoperative chemoradiotherapy (PCRT) was more frequently administered in the SSR group (83.8% vs 52.8%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Overall, the systemic and local recurrence rates were 29.1% and 6.1%, respectively. On stratification according to PCRT and pathologic stage, the mode of surgery did not affect the recurrence type. Moreover, recurrence-free survival (RFS) did not differ according to the mode of surgery in different cancer stages. RFS was associated with ypT and ypN stages in patients who received PCRT, while pN stage, lymphovascular invasion (LVI), and circumferential resection margin (CRM) involvement were risk factors for RFS in those who did not receive PCRT. Notably, SSR was not found to be a risk factor for RFS in either subgroup. Patients who were stratified according to cancer stage and PCRT also showed no differences in RFS according to the mode of surgery. Our results demonstrate that, regardless of PCRT administration, SSR is an effective treatment for very low rectal cancer, while CRM is an important prognostic factor for patients who did not receive PCRT. labels: #Anal Canal#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Capecitabine#Chemoradiotherapy#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Perineum#Rectal Neoplasms#Rectum#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: We report on a patient with mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) by follow-up diffusion tensor tractography (DTT), and observed for approximately nine monthsby serial diffusion tensor tractography (DTT).PATIENT CONCERNS: A 66-year-old male patient was injured in a car crash. Approximately four weeks after the crash, he developed a tremor in the right hand and leg. His symptoms worsened over time.DIAGNOSES: Approximately six months after the crash, he developed a mild tremor in the left hand. Nine months after the crash, he manifested severe tremor in his right hand, mild resting and intentional tremor in his left hand and both legs, and mild trunkal ataxia.INTERVENTIONS: N/A.OUTCOMES: On 3-week DTT, well reconstructed DRTTs were observed in both hemispheres, except for the thinned lower portion of the right DRTT. On 9-month DTT, the right lower DRTT had thinned compared with the 3-week DTT and showed a disruption at the upper portion. The left DRTT showed thinning in the lower portion and tearing in the upper portion compared with 3-week DTT.LESSONS: Aggravation of an injured DRTT was demonstrated in a patient with mild TBI, using serial DTT examination. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Aged#Ataxia#Brain Concussion#Cerebellar Nuclei#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Efferent Pathways#Follow-Up Studies#Hand#Humans#Leg#Male#Thalamus#Tremor'
b"The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prescription trend and pattern of oral antidiabetic (OAD) medications, which are extensively used worldwide for treating type 2 diabetes, in 2 age groups.In this population-based study, data obtained from the National Health Insurance Research Database, Taiwan, were analyzed to investigate the prescription trend of all types of OAD medications during 2005 to 2012. We used descriptive statistics to demonstrate the trend of prescription patterns stratified by age (aged 65 years and above or younger than 65).Sulfonylurea (SU) was once the most commonly used drug, but the proportion of its prescription had declined gradually (76.83% in 2005 to 63.70% in 2012). Consequently, biguanide (BG) became the most commonly used drug since 2010 (64.31% in 2005 to 74.41% in 2012). In addition, the prescriptions of thiazolidinedione decreased significantly (9.20% in 2005 to 2.86% in 2012), whereas the usage of DPP-4 inhibitor increased with time (3.73% in 2009 to 19.64% in 2012). The treatment choice of SU and \xce\xb1-glucosidase inhibitor (AGI) was higher in elderly patients compared with the younger population (SU: 62.70% in 2012, AGI: 12.78% in 2012). Two-drug combination therapies were the prevalent treatment choices for patients with type 2 diabetes (44.77% in 2012), particularly in the elderly group; however, \xe2\x89\xa53 drug combination therapies increased gradually during the study period, particularly in the younger group.This descriptive study presents the change in the prescription of OAD medication for different age groups during 2005 to 2012. labels: #Administration, Oral#Age Factors#Aged#Biguanides#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dipeptidyl-Peptidase IV Inhibitors#Drug Therapy, Combination#Glycoside Hydrolase Inhibitors#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Middle Aged#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Sulfonylurea Compounds#Taiwan#Thiazolidinediones"
b'Interleukin (IL)-27, one of cytokines in the IL-12 family, is considered to have both pro- and anti-inflammatory properties. However, blood IL-27 levels in coronary artery disease (CAD) have not been fully elucidated yet. This cross-sectional study was done to elucidate the association between blood IL-27 levels and CAD.We investigated plasma IL-27 and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels in 274 consecutive patients who underwent elective coronary angiography for suspected CAD. CAD was present in 177 patients [30 acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and 147 stable CAD]. Compared with 97 patients without CAD, 177 patients with CAD had higher IL-27 (median 0.26 vs 0.22\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and higher hsCRP (0.98 vs 0.41\xe2\x80\x8amg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) levels. However, there was no significant difference in IL-27 levels among 3 groups of ACS, stable CAD, and CAD(-) (0.26, 0.25, and 0.22\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL), whereas hsCRP levels were significantly higher in ACS and stable CAD than in CAD(-) (2.09, 0.91 vs 0.41\xe2\x80\x8amg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and were highest in ACS. IL-27 levels tended to increase with the number of>50% stenotic coronary vessels: 0.22 in CAD(-), 0.22 in 1-vessel disease, 0.31 in 2-vessel disease, and 0.27\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL in 3-vessel disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). A stepwise increase in hsCRP levels was also found: 0.41 in CAD(-), 0.75 in 1-vessel, 1.05 in 2-vessel, and 1.85\xe2\x80\x8amg/L in 3-vessel disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Plasma hsCRP levels significantly (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.35), but IL-27 levels weakly (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.15), correlated with the number of stenotic coronary segments. In multivariate analysis, both IL-27 and hsCRP levels were independent factors associated with CAD. However, hsCRP, but not IL-27, was also a factor for ACS.While plasma IL-27 levels were high in patients with CAD, these levels were an independent factor for only CAD, not ACS, and weakly correlated with the severity of CAD. Our results suggest that IL-27 is unlikely to be a good biomarker reflecting the severity of CAD or the presence of ACS, or to play a major role in the progression of CAD. labels: #Acute Coronary Syndrome#Aged#Biomarkers#C-Reactive Protein#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Complications#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Inflammation#Interleukin-27#Male#Middle Aged#Severity of Illness Index'
b'RATIONALE: Abdominal apoplexy is a rare and fatal emergency event, which is coined as a comparison to the cerebrovascular apoplexy. The exact mechanism of abdominal apoplexy was unclear, but arteriosclerosis, hypertension, abdominal aneurysm, and other predisposing angiopathy were considered to be the main reasons of abdominal apoplexy. The development of the imaging technology gave us more opportunities to confirm the diagnosis of abdominal apoplexy. However, the diagnosis and identification of the bleeding sites still continued to be a challenge.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old man presented to the emergency department with chief complains of sudden severe abdominal pain.DIAGNOSIS: The patient was diagnosed as abdominal apoplexy with 2 synchronous bleeding sites.INTERVENTIONS: Angiography confirmed diagnosis of abdominal apoplexy and revealed 2 synchronous bleeding sites in gastroduodenal artery (GDA) and inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery (IPDA). Transcatheter embolization was performed immediately.OUTCOMES: The patient recovered and was discharged very soon. Two months later, the patient totally recovered and the hematoma disappeared in the CT imaging.LESSONS: The reported case is rare, given the very low incidence of abdominal apoplexy with 2 synchronous bleeding sites in GDA and IPDA. The awareness of abdominal apoplexy was still the key point in the management of this disease. Quick diagnosis by the imaging and immediate embolization were very important for the treatment. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Arteries#Duodenum#Embolization, Therapeutic#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreas#Rupture, Spontaneous#Stomach'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the association between urinary incontinence (UI) and peptic ulcer (PU) and how this is related to psychological stress in Korean women by analyzing the data from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey IV (KNHANES).A nationally representative sample of data on 7475 Korean women \xe2\x89\xa519 years of age from the KNHANES 2008 to 2010 was included. Physician-diagnosed UI and PU were assessed using questionnaires and surveys. Psychological stress was assessed through a questionnaire using a 4-point Likert scale. Data were analyzed using logistic regression to determine the association between UI and PU according to the level of psychological stress perception.PU was found in 1.41% of the total population. Breaking this down by the existence of UI, PU was found in 3.5% of the population with UI, and 1.4% of the population without UI, which showed a significant difference. A statistically significant trend for increasing prevalence of UI and PU with increasing psychological stress perception levels was found among the study population. Multivariable logistic regression analyses for PU showed that UI was significantly associated with a higher probability of PU in an adjusted model, which means that members of the population with UI were more likely to have PU than those without UI. A higher level of psychological stress perception was also significantly associated with increased odds of PU in the adjusted model.UI could potentiate the development of PU through increasing levels of psychological stress perception. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Nutrition Surveys#Peptic Ulcer#Prevalence#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Statistics as Topic#Stress, Psychological#Surveys and Questionnaires#Urinary Incontinence'
b"BACKGROUND: In the clinical setting, the dispersed practitioners' attention often leads to decreased competence in their performance. We aimed to investigate the effect of distracted practitioners on the quality of chest compression during cardiopulmonary resuscitation.METHODS: A randomized controlled crossover simulation study was conducted. Participants were recruited from among doctors, nurses, and paramedics working in a university tertiary hospital. The paced auditory serial addition test (PASAT) was used as a tool for distracting participants. In the crossover design, each participant played 2 scenarios with a 20-minute time gap, by a random order; 2-minute continuous chest compressions with and without PASAT being conducted. The primary outcome was the percentage of compression with an adequate compression rate. Secondary outcomes were the percentage of compression with adequate depth, the percentage of compression with full chest wall recoil, mean compression rate (per minute), mean compression depth, and subjective difficulty of chest compression.RESULTS: Forty-four participants were enrolled, and all of them completed the study. It was found that the percentage of compression with an adequate compression rate was lower when the PASAT was conducted. Although there was no difference in the percentage of compression with adequate depth (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.88), the percentage of compression with complete chest recoil was lower when PASAT was conducted. In addition, while the mean compression rate was higher when PASAT was conducted, the mean compression depth was not significantly different (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.65). The subjective difficulty was not different (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.69).CONCLUSIONS: Health care providers who are distracted have a negative effect on the quality of chest compression, in terms of its rate and chest wall recoil.TRIAL REGISTRATION: www.ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03124290. labels: #Adult#Attentional Bias#Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Manikins#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Professional Competence#Professionalism#Quality Improvement#Task Performance and Analysis#Time Factors#Work Performance#Workplace"
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the osteoporosis prevalence and the risks of postmenopausal women and elderly men in Gansu province.This cross-sectional study involved 3359 postmenopausal women and 3205 elderly males who were randomly selected from 7 areas in Gansu province. Areal bone mineral density (BMD) (g/cm) was measured at the distal one-third radius of the nonstressed forearm using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA: Osteometer MediTech). Factors related to osteoporosis were analyzed.The prevalence of osteoporosis in the entire study population was 9.65% for postmenopausal women and 8.08% for elderly males by WHO criteria, while the rate of osteopenia were 27.09% for postmenopausal women and 26.68% for elderly males. Risk of osteoporosis was significantly associated with age, menopause age, duration of menopause, body mass index (BMI), educational level, and alcohol consumption in postmenopausal women. In elderly men, age, BMI, current smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and sun exposure were associated with osteoporosis. The bone turnover markers osteocalcin (OC) and C-terminal cross-linked telopeptides of type I collagen (\xce\xb2-CTX) were inversely correlated with BMD in both genders; serum P and 25(OH)D found no significant correlation with BMD. Serum Ca showed a positive effect on BMD in elderly men only.The osteoporosis prevalence of postmenopausal women and the men aged over 60 years in Gansu province is presented. Risk of osteoporosis was significantly associated with age, menopause age, year since menopause, BMI, and educational level in postmenopausal women. In elderly men, age, BMI, and current smoking were associated with osteoporosis. This study also found that higher OC and \xce\xb2-CTX level were associated with lower BMD. Poor 25(OH)D, Ca, P status were not associated with an increased risk of low BMD. labels: #Absorptiometry, Photon#Aged#Biomarkers#Bone Density#China#Collagen Type I#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Life Style#Male#Middle Aged#Osteocalcin#Osteoporosis#Peptides#Postmenopause#Prevalence#Random Allocation#Risk Factors'
b'The aim of this study was to identify clinical signs and symptoms of ovarian torsion (OT) in children and to develop a simple predictive score.A chart review of patients with acute adnexal pathologies treated at the University Children\'s Hospital Basel, Switzerland, between March 2006 and June 2015 was performed. Medical records were screened for demographic and clinical data. These included clinical symptoms, laboratory studies, imaging, and type of treatment. The diagnosis OT was defined as intraoperative visualization of the torsed ovary around its pedicle at least 360 degrees. Variables predictive for OT were identified and the following score for the likelihood of having OT was developed: age (points\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8anumber of years) minus 3 points (if vomitus\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a"yes") and plus 1 point (if "pain duration>12 hours").A total of 80 patients with acute adnexal pathologies were identified. OT was recorded in 17 (21%) cases and ovarian cysts (OC) only in 63 (79%) cases. Patients who presented with OT were significantly younger than patients with OC only (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Correspondingly, 11 (65%) of the patients with OT had no menarche compared to 3 (5%) patients with OC only (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Vomiting (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), a shorter pain duration (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01), and an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01) were observed significantly more often in patients with OT. The sensitivity of a positive OT score was 0.81 and increased to 1.00 if restricted to girls between 2 to 12 years of age.The presence of vomiting, short duration of abdominal pain, and elevated CRP level have a predictive value for the diagnosis of OT. In these patients, an exploratory laparoscopy should be conducted without delay. The presented OT score appears to be a helpful tool in diagnosing OT in children. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Adolescent#C-Reactive Protein#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ovarian Diseases#Ovary#Predictive Value of Tests#Research Design#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity#Switzerland#Symptom Assessment#Torsion Abnormality#Vomiting'
b"The relationship between hepatitis B virus (HBV) and the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after surgery remains uncertain. A retrospective cohort study was performed to evaluate the impact of pre-S deletions, T1762/A1764, and A1896 mutations on prognosis of HCC after curative resection. A total of 113 patients with positive serum HBV DNA (>200\xe2\x80\x8aIU/mL) who had underwent curative resection of pathologically proven HCC were recruited to determine the risk factors affecting the prognosis.The median follow-up time was 36.5 months and recurrence was detected in 67 patients (59.3%). The cumulative recurrence rates and overall survival rates at 1-, 3-, and 5-year after curative resection were 18.0%, 49.7%, 70.3%, and 93.7%, 61.0%, 42.5%, respectively. Patients with pre-S deletions showed significantly higher recurrence rates compared with those with wild type infection (HR: 1.822, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.018), but not related with a significantly poor survival (HR: 1.388, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.235). Subgroup analysis indicated that the patients with type III deletion had significant higher tumor recurrence rates than other deletion types (HR: 2.211, 95% confidence intervals [CI]: 1.008-4.846, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.048). Multivariate analysis revealed that pre-S deletion, tumor size>3\xe2\x80\x8acm in diameter, and the presence of microvascular invasion were independent risk factors for tumor recurrence. HBV pre-S deletions were found to be clustered primarily in the 5' end of pre-S2 region and were more often found between amino acids 120 and 142 of the pre-S2 domain. The domains most frequently potentially involved were the transactivator domain in pre-S2 and polymerized human serum albumin binding site.Our cohort showed that pre-S deletions at the time of resection could predict tumor recurrence in HCC patients after curative resection. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#China#Cohort Studies#DNA, Viral#Female#Hepatectomy#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Sequence Deletion#Statistics as Topic#Survival Analysis"
b'An adhesive small bowel obstruction (ASBO) is generally caused by postoperative adhesions and is more frequently associated with colorectal surgeries than other procedures. We compared the outcomes of operative and conservative management of ASBO after primary colorectal cancer surgery.We retrospectively reviewed 5060 patients who underwent curative surgery for primary colorectal cancer; 388 of these patients (7.7%) were readmitted with a diagnosis of SBO. We analyzed the clinical course of these patients with reference to the cause of their surgery.Of the 388 SBO patients analyzed, 170 were diagnosed with ASBO. Their 3-, 5-, and 7-year recurrence-free survival rates were 86.1%, 72.8%, and 61.5%, respectively. The median follow-up period was 59.2 months. Repeated conservative management for ASBO without surgical management led to higher recurrence rates: 21.0% after the first admission, 41.7% after the second, 60.0% after the third, and 100% after the fourth (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.006). Surgical management was needed for 19.2%, 22.2%, 50%, and 66.7% of patients admitted with ASBO on the first to fourth hospitalizations, respectively. Repeated hospitalization for obstruction led to a greater possibility of surgical management (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Of 27 patients with surgical management at the first admission, 6 (17.6%) were readmitted with a diagnosis of SBO, but there were no further episodes of SBO in the surgically managed patients.Patients who undergo operative management for ASBO have a reduced risk of recurrence requiring hospitalization, whereas those with repeated conservative management have an increased risk of recurrence and require operative management. Operative management should be considered for recurrent SBO. labels: #Adult#Aged#Colorectal Neoplasms#Conservative Treatment#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Intestinal Obstruction#Intestine, Small#Long Term Adverse Effects#Male#Middle Aged#Reoperation#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Tissue Adhesions'
b'BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: The approach to small bowel preparation before capsule endoscopy (CE) is still suboptimal.PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred eighty patients were randomly allocated to 3 groups. Patients in Group A took 250\xe2\x80\x8amL 20% mannitol and 1\xe2\x80\x8aL 0.9% saline orally at 05:00\xe2\x80\x8ahours on the day of the procedure. In Group B the same preparation was taken at 20:00 on the day before, and at 05:00 on the day of CE; in addition, 20\xe2\x80\x8amL oral simethicone was taken 30\xe2\x80\x8aminutes before CE. Group C was treated identically to Group B, except that the patients fasted for 3 days and took 3\xe2\x80\x8ag senna orally 3 times daily before CE. The length of bowel containing green luminal contents was assessed by ImageJ software and bowel cleanliness was evaluated by computed assessment of the cleansing score.RESULTS: Cleansing of the whole small bowel and the distal small bowel were significantly different between the 3 groups (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22.470, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000; \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17.029, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, respectively). There were also significant differences between the 3 groups in the length of small bowel and specifically the length of the distal small bowel containing green luminal contents (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12.390, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a15.141, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, respectively), but not with regard to the proximal small bowel (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.678, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.509).CONCLUSIONS: Three days fasting and oral senna, combined with 20% mannitol and simethicone, before CE, can reduce the effects of bile on the small bowel and improve small bowel cleansing, especially in the distal small intestine. labels: #Administration, Oral#Adult#Aged#Capsule Endoscopy#Cathartics#Drug Administration Schedule#Fasting#Female#Gastrointestinal Diseases#Humans#Intestine, Small#Male#Mannitol#Middle Aged#Patient Care Planning#Senna Extract#Simethicone#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Pes anserine (PA) bursitis is an inflammatory condition of the medial knee. The PA bursa becomes more painful when infected, damaged, or irritated. Although various treatment options have been attempted to treat PA bursitis, optimal treatments are still debated. This study aims to investigate the effect of polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) injection on reducing pain and inflammation in a patient presenting with PA bursitis.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 50-year-old female patient was admitted to our pain clinic with symptoms of tenderness and pain over the medial knee. Physical examination revealed the pain to be located over the proximal medial tibia at the insertion of the conjoined tendons of the PA. The knee had lost its range of movement and strength, and resisted knee flexion.DIAGNOSES: She was diagnosed as having PA bursitis.INTERVENTIONS: Ultrasound guided PA bursa injection was carried out.OUTCOMES: Follow-up for the patient was more than eight months. She showed good improvement in PA bursitis without any complications.LESSONS: This is the first successful report of successful PDRN injection for PA bursa. labels: #Analgesics#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Arthralgia#Bursa, Synovial#Bursitis#Female#Humans#Injections#Knee Joint#Middle Aged#Polydeoxyribonucleotides#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography'
b'The aim of the study is to describe the clinical characteristics and prognosis of malignant transformation of adenomyosis in patients with endometrial cancer.In this retrospective descriptive study, the clinical data of patients with endometrial cancer (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a127) who were admitted at our hospital between January 2006 and December 2013 were evaluated.Among the 127 patients with endometrial cancer, 24 patients had endometrial cancer concurrently with adenomyosis. Among these 24 patients, 3 were diagnosed with malignant transformation of adenomyosis. Postoperative pathological investigations in the cancer+adenomyosis group revealed endometrial adenocarcinoma of Grade I (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a21) and II (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3). The patients with malignant transformation of adenomyosis were relatively younger than the other patients. In those 3 patients, both the estrogen and progesterone receptors were strongly expressed in eutopic endometrium and were weakly positive in ectopic endometrium.Although adenomyosis is usually benign, it might also be a precursor of malignant disease. As the incidence of adenomyosis malignant transformation is low, and its clinical manifestations are nonspecific, it may only be confirmed by postoperative pathological examination. Further investigations on larger sample size may provide additional data about prognosis of adenomyosis malignant transformation. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenomyosis#Adult#Age Factors#Cell Transformation, Neoplastic#China#Choristoma#Endometrial Neoplasms#Endometrium#Female#Humans#Hysterectomy#Incidence#Middle Aged#Myometrium#Neoplasm Grading#Receptors, Estrogen#Receptors, Progesterone#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Thrombocytopenia in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is usually attributed to impaired marrow production resulting from cytotoxic drug use or CMML itself ("CMML-induced thrombocytopenia"). In very rare cases, immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) can be a complication of CMML ("CMML-associated ITP"). However, treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in patients with CMML is still a challenge.PATIENT CONCERNS: Case 1 was a 61-year-old female patient admitted to our hospital because of skin petechiae and purpura for 6 days. She had increased monocyte cell count (1.82\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L), markedly decreased platelet count (2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L), hypercellularity of the megakaryocyte lineage with many immature megakaryocytes, and ZRSR2(zinc finger CCCH-type, RNA binding motif and serine/arginine rich 2) mutation. She failed to the treatment of corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), TPO (thrombopoietin), and cyclosporin A (CsA). Case 2 was a 72-year-old female patient with thrombocytosis and monocytosis for 4 years, and thrombocytopenia for 6 months. After 10 courses of decitabine therapy, she had a persistent severe thrombocytopenia and decreased number of megakaryocytes, TET2 (tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 2) and SRSF2 (serine and arginine rich splicing factor 2) mutations were detected. She was dependent on platelet transfusion.DIAGNOSES: Case 1 was diagnosed as CMML-associated ITP, and case 2 as CMML with decitabine therapy-induced thrombocytopenia.INTERVENTIONS: Both patients were treated with eltrombopag.OUTCOMES: In both patients, the platelet counts returned to the normal within 1 week after eltrombopag therapy. The platelet count in case 1 patient remained stable at 141-200\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L for 20 months with stopping therapy for 3 months. In case 2 patient, eltrombopag was stopped 1 month later. Her platelet count decreased to 41\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L, but was stable at \xe2\x88\xbc30\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L for 3 months with platelet transfusion independency for 12 months. Both patients had no adverse effects with eltrombopag.LESSONS: CMML-associated ITP is very rare and easily misdiagnosed. To the best of our knowledge, case 1 is the first reported case of the successful treatment of CMML-associated ITP with eltrombopag. Both CMML-associated ITP and decitabine therapy-induced thrombocytopenia in these 2 patients were highly sensitive and safe to eltrombopag therapy. labels: #Aged#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Azacitidine#Benzoates#DNA-Binding Proteins#Drug Monitoring#Female#Hematologic Agents#Humans#Hydrazines#Leukemia, Myelomonocytic, Chronic#Middle Aged#Mutation#Nuclear Proteins#Platelet Count#Proto-Oncogene Proteins#Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic#Pyrazoles#Ribonucleoproteins#Serine-Arginine Splicing Factors#Thrombocytopenia#Thrombopoietin#Treatment Outcome'
b'The CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores are well-known predictors of stroke caused by atrial fibrillation (AF), but no studies have evaluated their use for stratifying all-cause mortality risk in patients discharged for systolic heart failure (SHF) with or without AF.This study analyzed data in the Taiwan Society of Cardiology-heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (TSOC-HFrEF) registry. These data were obtained by a prospective, multicenter, observational survey of patients treated at 21 medical centers in Taiwan after hospitalization for acute, pre-existing or new onset SHF from May, 2013 to October, 2014. During 1 year follow-up, 198 patients were lost follow-up, and final 1311 (86.8%) patients were included for further analysis. During the follow-up period, 250 (19%) patients died. Multivariate analysis revealed that body mass index, thyroid disorder, valvular surgery history, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and scores for CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 were significant independent predictors of mortality in the overall population of SHF patients (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) The c-indexes showed that CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores were significantly associated with mortality in SHF patients with or without AF (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a005). However, R2CHADS2 had significantly higher accuracy in predicting mortality in all SHF patients compared with CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc (DeLong test, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001), especially in SHF without AF (DeLong test, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0003).Scores for CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 can be used to predict 1-year all-cause mortality in SHF patients with or without AF. For predicting all-cause mortality in SHF patients, R2CHADS2 is more accurate than CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Female#Heart Failure, Systolic#Hospitalization#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Predictive Value of Tests#Prospective Studies#Registries#Research Design#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Taiwan'
b'INTRODUCTION: We report a 39-year-old male patient with a fracture of the right acetabulum undergoing open reduction and internal fixation with a plate under general anesthesia. At closure, the surgeons injected 0.75% ropivacaine into the subcutaneous tissue of the incision wound for postoperative analgesia. Soon after injection, subcutaneous emphysema at the injection site and a sudden decrease in end-tidal CO2 tension with crude oscillatory ripples during the alveolar plateau phase were observed. Shortly thereafter, it was found that the surgeons had mistakenly injected hydrogen peroxide instead of ropivacaine. Fortunately, the patient recovered to normal status after 10 minutes. After the surgery, the patient was carefully observed for suspected pulmonary embolism and discharged without complications.CONCLUSION: Adverse events related to medication errors can occur in operating rooms, and most cases can be prevented through communication and verification by medical staff. The use of hydrogen peroxide should be reevaluated; when used, medical staff should be aware of the risk of oxygen embolism and take extreme care. labels: #Acetabulum#Adult#Anesthesia, General#Anti-Infective Agents, Local#Embolism, Air#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Injections, Subcutaneous#Intraoperative Complications#Male#Medication Errors#Oxygen#Subcutaneous Emphysema#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Vandetanib is a promising anticancer target agent for treating advanced carcinomas, such as non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and breast cancer. Rash is a frequently reported adverse event of vandetanib. We conducted this meta-analysis to determine the incidence rate and overall risks of all-grade and high-grade rash with vandetanib in NSCLC patients.METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, American Society of Clinical Oncology, and Cochrane Library were systematically searched to identify studies with vandetanib and rash in NSCLC patients. Data were extracted to calculate the pooled incidence of all-grade and high-grade (grade \xe2\x89\xa53) rash caused by vandetanib treatment.RESULTS: Nine randomized controlled trials involving 4893 patients met the inclusion criteria and were included in this meta-analysis. The overall incidence of all-grade and high-grade rash caused by vandetanib treatment was 46% (95% CI: 37.1%, 54.8%), and 3.2% (95% CI: 1.4%, 5.1%), respectively. The risk ratios (RR) of all-grade and high-grade rash for vandetanib treatment versus control treatment were 2.35 (95% CI: 1.20, 4.61; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and 4.68 (95% CI 1.42, 15.37; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), respectively. Subgroup analysis suggested that the increased risk of all-grade rash was clear across all subgroups, including first-line/second-line therapy, phase 2/phase 3 trial, sample size</>200, a dosage of 100 or 300\xe2\x80\x8amg, and monotherapy/combination therapy. However, for the high-grade rash, vandetanib did not increase the risk of rash when it was used in first-line therapy, or in a phase II trial, or in a trial with sample size<200.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that vandetanib was associated with a significantly increased risk of rash. Therefore, early recognition and appropriate monitoring should be taken when NSCLC patients were treated with vandetanib. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Exanthema#Humans#Incidence#Inflammatory Breast Neoplasms#Neoplasm Staging#Piperidines#Quinazolines#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Severity of Illness Index'
b'Glaucoma (GL) and atrial fibrillation (AF) are diseases of significant social importance. Cardiovascular disorders such as systemic hypertension, hypotension, increased blood viscosity, vasospasm, and diabetes are potential risk factors of GL, especially when intraocular pressure is not elevated. Only a few studies have reported a possible connection between cardiac arrhythmias and GL. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the risk of GL in patients with AF.A total of 117 patients were included in the study, 79 with AF (AF group) and 38 with sinus rhythm (Control group), matched for age and sex. The mean\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8astandard deviation age was 73.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.2 and 71.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a4.7 years for the AF and control groups, respectively. There were no statistically significant differences in the percentage of systemic hypertension, congestive heart failure, diabetes mellitus type 2, or vascular disease between the groups. Patients were examined for the presence of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) by an ophthalmologist.NTG was confirmed in 40 patients (34.2%) in the entire group, with 35 (44.3%) in the AF group and 5 (13.15%) in the Control group. The incidence of NTG was significantly higher in the AF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0221). Women represented 60% of GL patients in the AF group and 80% in the control group. There were no significant differences in intraocular pressure between the groups (mean\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8astandard deviation, 14.3\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.3 vs. 14.2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.8\xe2\x80\x8ammHg, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.4202). Approximately three-fourths of patients with AF and NTG had early visual field damage based on the Hodapp classification.AF, independent of other known cardiovascular risk factors, increases the risk of developing NTG. Many AF patients do not have conspicuous symptoms of GL, so understanding the possible risk of its development is critical because early detection might help to prevent later visual impairment and even irreversible blindness. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Early Diagnosis#Early Medical Intervention#Female#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Poland#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Statistics as Topic#Tonometry, Ocular#Vision Disorders'
b'RATIONALE: Post-therapy or diagnostic whole-body radioiodine scintigraphy is widely employed to evaluate the residual, recurrence, or metastases of differentiated thyroid carcinoma because of the high sensitivity and accuracy. However, it has pitfalls.PATIENT CONCERNS: We described a 63-year-old male with a history of papillary thyroid carcinoma who was referred for iodine-131 ablation therapy. The post-therapy iodine-131 whole-body images demonstrated abnormal increased uptake of the tracer in the regions of bilateral upper abdomen.DIAGNOSES: The single photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) showed the abnormal Iactivity was corresponded to multiple irregular cystic low densities in the both kidneys on the low-dose computed tomography images, so the diagnosis of polycystic kidney disease was confirmed.INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: The patient responded well to the lifestyle-based treatments.LESSONS: Polycystic kidney disease was one of the etiologies of the false-positive findings in the radioiodine scintigraphy. labels: #Carcinoma, Papillary#Humans#Incidental Findings#Iodine Radioisotopes#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Polycystic Kidney Diseases#Radioimmunotherapy#Radiopharmaceuticals#Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography Computed Tomography#Thyroid Neoplasms#Whole Body Imaging'
b'We investigated the serum haptoglobin levels in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) based on the hypothesis that haptoglobin levels would reflect subclinical hemolysis due to microangiopathy in pulmonary arterioles.This cross-sectional study included 3 groups of patients attending Hokkaido University Hospital: PAH, chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), and connective tissue diseases (CTD) without PAH (CTD-non-PAH) group. Serum haptoglobin levels were measured by standardized turbidimetric immunoassay in all patients. Demographic data, laboratory results, right heart catheter, and echocardiographic findings were extracted from the medical records. Decreased haptoglobin levels were defined as below 19\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL based on the 95th percentile of healthy controls.Thirty-five patients in PAH group including 11 with idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and 24 with CTD-associated PAH (CTD-PAH), 27 in CTEPH group, and 32 in CTD-non-PAH group were analyzed. Serum haptoglobin levels in PAH group (median 66\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL) were significantly lower than those in CTEPH group (median 94\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03) and CTD-non-PAH group (median 79\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). The prevalence of decreased haptoglobin levels was 26% in PAH group, 15% in CTEPH group, and 6% in CTD-non-PAH group. Serum haptoglobin levels had a significant negative correlation (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.66, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) with mean pulmonary artery pressure in PAH group, particularly in CTD-PAH subgroup (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.74, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but no correlation in IPAH subgroup (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.52, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.13) and in CTEPH group (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.17, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.41). Follow-up cases of CTD-PAH showed lowering pulmonary artery pressure led to normalizing serum haptoglobin levels.Serum haptoglobin levels decreased in PAH patients and inversely correlated with pulmonary artery pressure in CTD-PAH patients, suggesting their potential as a surrogate marker for CTD-PAH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Arterioles#Blood Pressure#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Haptoglobins#Hemolysis#Humans#Hypertension, Pulmonary#Lung#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Artery#Pulmonary Embolism#Thrombotic Microangiopathies'
b'Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of small-diameter mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas (ICCs) (diameter \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x8acm) are still unclear.This study focused on imaging findings of small mass-forming ICCs. The MRI findings for small-diameter mass-forming ICCs were summarized, and the enhancement features of small ICC nodules with different diameters [2 groups were defined: a smaller nodule group (ICC diameter<2\xe2\x80\x8acm) and a larger nodule group (ICC diameter>2\xe2\x80\x8acm)] were compared on contrast-enhanced MRI.In our study, there were 41 small ICC nodules in 41 patients, including 30 men and 11 women (average age, 56 years). The nodules were characterized by peripheral hyperintense in the arterial phase on contrast-enhanced MRI. In the different diameter groups, peripheral hyperintense was the most common in the larger nodule group (56% vs 12%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and hypointense was more common in the smaller nodule group (25% vs 0%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in the arterial phase on contrast-enhanced MRI. Smaller nodules mainly showed progressive enhancement, whereas larger nodules mainly showed peripheral continuous enhancement (56% vs 6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).The small-diameter mass-forming ICC nodules mainly show peripheral continuous enhancement on contrast-enhanced MRI; however, those with diameters<2\xe2\x80\x8acm commonly show progressive enhancement. labels: #Adult#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Bile Ducts, Intrahepatic#Cholangiocarcinoma#Contrast Media#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Humans#Image Enhancement#Liver#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Radiologists#Retrospective Studies'
b'Intralesional steroid injections are the standard treatment for hypertrophic scars and keloids. The procedure is, however, quite painful and is unpopular with patients because of this. Topical application of anesthetic creams, such as Ametop gel (tetracaine) and EMLA cream (lidocaine and prilocaine), has limited efficacy because of poor drug penetration. The onset of the analgesic effect is also slow, which means that the use of topical anesthetics is time-consuming in clinical practice.We hypothesized that a commercially available cryotip could be used to provide fast-acting topical cryoanesthesia that would reduce the pain associated with steroid injections.Thirty patients with hypertrophic scars or keloids were enrolled in the study. Scars were injected with the steroid, triamcinolone acetonide, with or without prior application of the cryotip (-10\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb0C) for 15 seconds. The degree of pain was evaluated in each case using the visual analogue scale (VAS) and the verbal descriptor scale (VDS), together with any side-effects caused by application of the cryotip.The VAS pain scores showed a statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) difference between the pretreated and the control scars (pain scores 7.87\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.31 and 2.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.37, respectively). The VDS pain scores also showed a statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) difference between the pretreated and the control scars. And its average scores were 7.89\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.32 and 2.68\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.25, respectively.Application of the cryotip before injection could provide a rapid and effective means of reducing the pain associated with steroid injections. Painless would result in better therapeutic effect. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anesthetics, Local#Cicatrix, Hypertrophic#Cryoanesthesia#Female#Glucocorticoids#Humans#Injections, Intralesional#Keloid#Male#Middle Aged#Pain#Pain Measurement#Treatment Outcome#Triamcinolone Acetonide#Young Adult'
b'It is still debatable whether complete mediastinal lymph node dissection (MLND) is associated with better survival than mediastinal lymph node sampling (MLNS) in surgical treatment of nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We aimed to assess the impact of lymph node dissection on long-term survival among stage I NSCLC patients.In this cohort study, 317 stage I NSCLC Chinese patients in Shanghai Chest Hospital were followed up for at least 10 years to evaluate the impact of different lymph node dissection modes on their survival. Among them, 161 patients were in the MLND group and 156 in the MLNS group. Overall survival and median survival times were calculated for the 2 groups. The association between lymph node dissection and the survival of NSCLC patients was assessed using Cox proportional-hazard models.Patients in the MLND group presented better survival (median survival time\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a154.67 months) than those in the MLNS group (median survival time\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a124.67 months). The MLNS had higher mortality than the MLND group, with the crude hazard ratio of the MLNS group relative to the MLND group as 1.32 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97, 1.78). After adjusting for age and sex, the association between lymph node dissection and mortality (hazard ratio 1.36, 95% CI 1.00, 1.84) was statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.047). Further adjusting for baseline clinical characteristics, the association (hazard ratio 1.40, 95% CI 1.02, 1.92) remained statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.036). The association between lymph node dissection mode and mortality was strong among patients with tumor size between 2.0 and 3.0\xe2\x80\x8acm (hazard ratio 2.79, 95% CI 1.45, 5.37).We found that the MLND was associated with better survival for patients with early-stage NSCLC, compared with the MLNS. The effects of MLND on survival may depend on tumor size. Our findings have important implications in the treatment of early-stage NSCLC. Further prospective studies with a large sample size are needed to confirm our findings. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Lung Neoplasms#Lymph Node Excision#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Mediastinum#Neoplasm Staging#Proportional Hazards Models#Treatment Outcome'
b"To determine the prevalence of thyroid disorders among newly diagnosed rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and evaluate the association between clinical characteristics of RA and thyroid disorders, and also initial treatment response in the RA patients with thyroid disorders.Newly diagnosed, adult RA patients who were diagnosed according to the new 2010 American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism criteria since January 1, 2010, were included. Patients' demographic data, serology results including immunoglobulin M rheumatoid factor (IgM RF), anticyclic citrullinated peptide antibody (anti-CCP), and antinuclear antibody (ANA), and also disease activity score in 28 joints-C-reactive protein at the time of diagnosis and after 4 months (\xc2\xb11-2 months) of treatment initiation were extracted from Danish Danbio Registry. Patients' electronic hospital records for the past 10 years were reviewed to reveal if they had been diagnosed with thyroid disorders or they had abnormal thyroid test.In all, 439 patients were included, female 60.1%, mean age 64.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a15.0 years and disease duration 2.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.7 years. Prevalence of thyroid disorders was 69/439 (15.7%) and hypothyroidism was the most frequent disorder (30.4%). The presence of thyroid disorders among RA patients was significantly associated with female sex (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), ANA positivity (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04), and anti-CCP \xe2\x89\xa5100\xe2\x80\x8aEU/mL (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Furthermore, RA patients with thyroid disorders had significantly poorer initial response to RA treatment compared with patients with isolated RA after 4 months of treatment (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02). There were no associations between thyroid disorders and age, disease duration, and also IgM RF positivity.Presence of thyroid disorders in RA patients is suggestive of a more aggressive disease and poor outcome, with direct effect on initial treatment response. To diagnose concurrent thyroid disorders at an earlier stage, routine measurement of serum thyroid-stimulating hormone is recommended in all RA patients at the time of diagnosis and with yearly interval thereafter. labels: #Aged#Antibodies, Antinuclear#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Rheumatoid#Autoantibodies#C-Reactive Protein#Cohort Studies#Denmark#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin M#Joints#Male#Middle Aged#Peptides, Cyclic#Prevalence#Registries#Rheumatoid Factor#Severity of Illness Index#Thyroid Diseases#Treatment Outcome"
b'RATIONALE: Acute colonic diverticulitis is a well-known surgical emergency, which occurs in about 10 percent of patients known for diverticulosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: The case of a 77-year-old woman is reported, with past history of abdominoperineal resection with end-colostomy for low rectal adenocarcinoma, and who developed an acute colonic diverticulitis in a subcutaneous portion of colostomy with parastomal phlegmon.DIAGNOSES: Initial computed tomography imaging demonstrated a significant submucosal parietal edema with local fat tissues infiltration in regard of 3 diverticula.INTERVENTIONS: A two-step treatment was decided: first a nonoperative treatment was initiated with 2 weeks antibiotics administration, followed by, 6 weeks after, a segmental resection of the terminal portion of the colon with redo of a new colostomy by direct open approach.OUTCOMES: Patient was discharged on the second postoperative day without complications. Follow-up at 2 weeks revealed centimetric dehiscence of the stoma, which was managed conservatively until sixth postoperative week by stomatherapists.LESSONS SUBSECTIONS: Treatment of acute diverticulitis with parastomal phlegmon in a patient with end-colostomy could primary be nonoperative. Delayed surgical treatment with segmental colonic resection was proposed to avoid recurrence and potential associated complications. labels: #Abdominal Neoplasms#Aged#Anus Neoplasms#Cellulitis#Colostomy#Diverticulitis, Colonic#Female#Humans#Perineum#Postoperative Complications#Surgical Stomas'
b'This study is conducted to investigate the involvement of T-helper (Th) cells and regulatory T cells in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).The percentages of Th22, Th17, Th1, and regulatory T cells in the peripheral blood of EOC patients, benign ovarian epithelial neoplasm (BOEN) patients, and healthy control (HC) were examined by flow cytometry. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to determine serum levels of interleukin (IL)-22, IL-17, interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3), and tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 (TNF-\xce\xb1).Th22 and Th17 were significantly increased in EOC patients. The plasma concentrations of IL-22 and TNF-\xce\xb1 were significantly elevated in EOC patients compared with BOEN patients and HC. In EOC patients, there was an increased trend of Th22, IL-22, and TNF-\xce\xb1 in stage III-IV patients compared with stage I-II patients. A positive correlation was seen among Th22, Th17, and Th1 cells in EOC patients. Similarly, positive correlations were detected between Th22 cells and IL-22 or TNF-\xce\xb1 and between Th1 cells and interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3) in EOC patients. Besides, no significant difference was found in Th1 cells and regulatory T cells among EOC and BOEN patients and HC.There is a higher circulating frequency of Th22, Th17 cells, IL-22, and TNF-\xce\xb1 concentration in EOC patients, which may conjointly participate in the pathogenesis and growth of EOC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Cytokines#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Lymphocyte Count#Middle Aged#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory'
b'RATIONALE: Relapsing polychondritis (RP) is a multisystemic, progressive disease of unknown etiology characterized by recurrent inflammation and progressive cartilage destruction. It can involve all types of cartilage including ears and nose, tracheobronchial tree, joints, and any other tissue rich in proteoglycans such as heart, eyes, and blood vessels. Recurrent chondritis can be life-threatening if the respiratory tract, heart valves, or blood vessels are affected. To date there is no data in the literature on the post solid organ transplantation RP.PATIENT CONCERNS: We present a 59-year-old male liver transplant recipient with primary sclerosing cholangitis who developed RP of the earlobes and nose despite post-transplant immunosuppression.DIAGNOSES: Based on the clinical criteria, scintigraphy and biopsy from the left auricle his condition was diagnosed as RP.INTERVENTIONS: Pulses of methylprednisolone followed by high-dose oral steroids along with azathioprine were administered.OUTCOMES: Such therapy diminished local cartilage inflammation, improved patient\'s general condition and the laboratory results. Significant loss of ear cartilage and characteristic "saddlenose" were observed after remission of acute symptoms. The control scintigraphy proved very good treatment response.LESSONS: To the best of our knowledge this is the first report on the RP in liver transplant recipient. Based on our patient presentation, we suggest that RP should be suspected in any transplant recipient with cartilage inflammation, and that the Michet\'s clinical criteria and scintigraphy seem to be the best diagnostic tools for solid organ transplant recipients suspected of RP. labels: #Cholangitis, Sclerosing#Ear Cartilage#Ear Diseases#Humans#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Nasal Cartilages#Nose Diseases#Polychondritis, Relapsing'
b'The aims of present study were to evaluate the prevalence, risk factors, and prognostic significance of masked hypertension in diabetic patients. Using a cross-sectional design, 266 patients with documented type 2 diabetes mellitus and clinic blood pressure (BP)<140/90\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg without antihypertension treatment were enrolled; 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring was applied to evaluate mean 24-hour systolic/diastolic BP. Demographics, medical histories, and medications usage were obtained using questionnaire. Fasting venous blood was drawn for biochemical analysis. Approximately 26.5% of participants were diagnosed as masked hypertension with mean 24-hour systolic BP>130\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg and/or mean 24-hour diastolic BP>80\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg. Compared with those without masked hypertension, other than significantly higher mean 24-hour systolic/diastolic BP, patients with masked hypertension were more elderly, had higher serum glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and higher prevalence of coronary heart disease (CHD). Multivariate regression analysis showed that aging, increased HbA1c and CRP levels, and prevalent CHD were independently associated with masked hypertension. Logistic regression analysis revealed that after adjusted for traditional risk factors including age, male sex, smoking status, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, CRP, clinic systolic BP, and HbA1c, masked hypertension remained independently associated with prevalent cardiovascular disease (CVD), with odds ratio of 1.31 and 95% confidence interval of 1.11 to 1.85. In summary, in diabetic patients, concurrent masked hypertension increases the odds of having CVD. Future randomized controlled trials are warranted to investigate whether screening and managing masked hypertension could reduce cardiovascular events in diabetic patients. labels: #Aged#Blood Pressure#C-Reactive Protein#Coronary Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Lipoproteins, LDL#Male#Masked Hypertension#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Prognosis#Risk Factors'
b'Walking up and down stairs is a common and important activity of daily living. Women with fibromyalgia often show a reduced ability to perform this task.The objective of this study was to evaluate the test-retest reliability of stair negotiation tasks and to assess the impact of fibromyalgia symptoms on the ability to negotiate stairs.Forty-two women with fibromyalgia participated in this descriptive correlational study. The relevance of the stair negotiation (both walking up and down) was evaluated by assessing its association with the revised version of the fibromyalgia impact questionnaire (FIQ-R) and other health-related variables. Test-retest reliability was also analyzed. The main outcome measures were time spent walking up and down stairs and impact of fibromyalgia, quality of life, number of falls, weight, and lower limb strength and endurance.The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for stair descent was 0.929 whereas that for ascent was 0.972. The score in these tests correlated significantly with the total score for the FIQ-R and the score for many of dimensions and symptoms: that is, physical function, overall impact of fibromyalgia, pain, energy, stiffness, restorative sleep, tenderness, self-perceived balance problems, and sensitivity.Given the importance of the stair negotiation as activity of daily living and the high reliability, both stair ascent and descent tasks may be useful as outcome measures in studies on patients with fibromyalgia. labels: #Accidental Falls#Activities of Daily Living#Adult#Aged#Disability Evaluation#Female#Fibromyalgia#Humans#Lower Extremity#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Reproducibility of Results#Statistics as Topic#Surveys and Questionnaires#Task Performance and Analysis#Walking'
b'Due to the lack of an accurate preoperative diagnostic method of central lymph node metastasis (CLNM) of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), the prophylaxis of central lymph node dissection remains controversial. The present study investigated the clinicopathological features of PTC patients and the risk factors of CLNM. The clinicopathological features of PTC patients with respect to sex, age, initial symptoms, observation, tumor diameter, multifocality, extrathyroidal invasion, and pathological data combined with other thyroid diseases, were analyzed retrospectively. The risk factors of CLNM were analyzed by Chi-squared test and multivariate logistic regression model. The CLNM rate of PTC was 40.6% (1331/3273). On average, 7.0 (4.0, 12.0) central lymph nodes were dissected, and 3.70 (\xc2\xb13.8) lymph nodes were proved to be metastatic. Univariate analysis showed that sex (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), age (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), tumor diameter (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), extrathyroid invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), multifocality (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), concurrent nodular goiter (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), initial symptoms (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and observation or not (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were related to CLNM. The observation time was neither related to CLNM (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.469) nor extrathyroidal invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.137). Tumors localized in the lower part of the thyroid were the risk factors for CLNM (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) while multifocality was unrelated (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.68). The metastasis rate of bilateral multiple regions\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8aunilateral multiple regions\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8asingle region (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that sex, age, tumor diameter, extrathyroidal invasion, and observation were independent risk factors of CLNM. Male, younger age, large tumor size, and extrathyroidal invasion were independent risk factors for CLNM. CLNM was related to multiple regions occupied by tumors in the thyroid but unrelated to multifocality. The tumor occupying a single region and localized in the lower part of thyroid could be used as a predictive factor for CLNM. For tumors that could not be diagnosed as benign or malignant, observation may be an option, since no evidence of disease progression was presented during observation. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Carcinoma, Papillary#Chi-Square Distribution#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Logistic Models#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neck#Neck Dissection#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Thyroid Neoplasms#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Watchful Waiting'
b'The objective of this study was to examine the incidence and hazard ratio (HR) of pulmonary tuberculosis in patients with head and neck cancer in Taiwan.This population-based retrospective cohort study was conducted to analyze the database of the Taiwan National Health Insurance Program. There were 2522 subjects aged 20 to 84 years with newly diagnosed head and neck cancer as the head and neck cancer group between 2000 and 2012, and 10,064 randomly selected sex- and age-matched subjects without any cancer as the noncancer group. The incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis at the end of 2013 was estimated in both groups. A multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression model was used to estimate the HR and 95% confidence interval (CI) for pulmonary tuberculosis being associated with head and neck cancer.The overall incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis was 2.86-fold greater in the head and neck cancer group than that in the noncancer group (4.70 vs 1.64 per 1000 person-years, 95% CI, 2.53-3.24). After adjusting for confounding factors, the adjusted HR of pulmonary tuberculosis became 2.90 for the head and neck cancer group (95% CI, 2.11-3.99), compared with the noncancer group. In addition, male (adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI, 1.29-4.00) and age (increase for 1 year, adjusted HR 1.06, 95% CI, 1.05-1.08) were associated with pulmonary tuberculosis.Head and neck cancer is significantly associated with 2.90-fold increased hazard of pulmonary tuberculosis in Taiwan, compared with the general population. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Databases, Factual#Female#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Taiwan#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Both genomics and environmental stressors play a significant role in increases in blood pressure (BP). In an attempt to further explain the hypertension (HTN) disparity among African Americans (AA), both genetic underpinnings (selected candidate genes) and stress due to perceived racial discrimination (as reported in the literature) have independently been linked to increased BP among AAs. Although Gene x Environment interactions on BP have been examined, the environmental component of these investigations has focused more on lifestyle behaviors such as smoking, diet, and physical activity, and less on psychosocial stressors such as perceived discrimination.The present study uses candidate gene analyses to identify the relationship between Everyday Discrimination (ED) and Major Life Discrimination (MLD) with increases in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) among AA in the Jackson Heart Study. Multiple linear regression models reveal no association between discrimination and BP after adjusting for age, sex, body mass index (BMI), antihypertensive medication use, and current smoking status.Subsequent candidate gene analysis identified 5 SNPs (rs7602215, rs3771724, rs1006502, rs1791926, and rs2258119) that interacted with perceived discrimination and SBP, and 3 SNPs (rs2034454, rs7602215, and rs3771724) that interacted with perceived discrimination and DBP. Most notably, there was a significant SNP\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8adiscrimination interaction for 2 SNPs on the SLC4A5 gene: rs3771724 (MLD: SBP P = .034, DBP P = .031; ED: DBP: P = .016) and rs1006502 (MLD: SBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.034, DBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.030; ED: DBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.015).This study supports the idea that SNP\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8adiscrimination interactions combine to influence clinically relevant traits such as BP. Replication with similar epidemiological samples is required to ascertain the role of genes and psychosocial stressors in the development and expression of high BP in this understudied population. labels: #Adult#African Americans#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Blood Pressure#Discrimination (Psychology)#Female#Gene-Environment Interaction#Health Status Disparities#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Severe sepsis or septic shock are the main factors influencing the prognosis of acute pyelonephritis (APN). Our aim was to analyze factors associated with the development of severe sepsis or septic shock in a large sample of patients with acute complicated pyelonephritis (ACPN).This prospective observational study comprised 1507 consecutive patients aged 14 years or older who were admitted to a tertiary care hospital because of ACPN between 1997 and 2015. Covariates associated in univariate analysis with severe sepsis or septic shock were then analyzed by multivariate logistic regression.Of the 1507 patients, 423 (28.1%) fulfilled the criteria for severe sepsis or septic shock at the time of admission. Crude and attributable mortality at 30 days were 17.7% and 11.7% in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock versus 1.7% and 0.6% in patients without severe sepsis or septic shock, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0005, respectively. An age\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a65 years, urinary instrumentation in the previous 2 weeks, the lack of mictional syndrome or costovertebral tenderness, an ectasia \xe2\x89\xa5 grade II, and bacteremia were independent risk factors associated with severe sepsis or septic shock.The prevalence of severe sepsis and septic shock in patients with ACPN is high. Some factors associated with severe sepsis are easy to identify in any emergency department. The information provided here could be useful when deciding which patients should be admitted to receive immediate treatment. labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Pyelonephritis#Risk Factors#Sepsis#Shock, Septic'
b'Peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is the development of heart failure during late pregnancy to months postpartum with potential fatal outcome. However, the disease is not well-studied in Asia.We aimed to investigate the epidemiology and clinical outcomes of PPCM in Taiwan.Electronic medical records were retrieved from Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database from 1997 to 2011. Patients with PPCM were separated into 3 groups based on the timing of diagnosis. Early: PPCM diagnosed first to ninth month of pregnancy. Traditional: PPCM diagnosed last month of pregnancy till fifth month post-delivery. Late: PPCM diagnosed sixth to twelfth month post-delivery. Primary outcomes defined as cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) within 1 year.A total of 3,506,081 deliveries during 1997 to 2011 were retrieved and 925 patients with PPCM were identified. Overall incidence of PPCM was 1:3,790 during the 15 years. Early, Traditional, and Late group each had 88, 742, and 95 patients. Cardiac death occurred in 31 patients, all-cause mortality in 72 patients, and MACE in 65 patients. Late group had 2- to 3-fold event rates in cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and MACE compared with Early and Traditional groups. Cumulative incidence showed significant differences for cardiac death (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0011), all-cause mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0031), and MACE (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0014) among 3 groups. Multivariate Cox model showed Late group had significantly worse outcomes after adjusted for clinical variables compared with 2 other groups.Our study is the largest national cohort among Asian countries that showed timing of diagnosis of PPCM had different outcomes. Late diagnosis portended significantly increased morbidity and mortality, even after adjusted for clinical variables. labels: #Adult#Cardiomyopathies#Cause of Death#Databases, Factual#Female#Heart Failure#Humans#Incidence#Multivariate Analysis#Peripartum Period#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Puerperal Disorders#Taiwan'
b'Syphilitic chorioretinitis should be included in differential diagnosis of any form of ocular inflammation. A significantly higher proportion of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients with ocular syphilis as compared to HIV-negative cases have been reported in published studies. However, the clinical signs and symptoms are more insidious in HIV-negative patients who are easily misdiagnosed. We report a series of cases of ocular syphilis and describe the clinical manifestations and treatment outcomes of syphilitic chorioretinitis in HIV-negative patients in China.This was a retrospective case series study. The clinical records of patients with syphilis chorioretinitis were reviewed. Demographic information and findings of fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), indocyanine green angiography (ICGA), and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) were analyzed. All patients received the standard treatment. Ophthalmology examination and laboratory evaluation were repeated every 3 months. All changes were recorded. The treatment was considered successful if the patients had no inflammation in both eyes and rapid plasma reagin titer was negative after therapy.The study examined 41 eyes of 28 HIV-negative patients. The main complaints were blurry vision, floaters, and visual field defect. Twenty-seven eyes presented with panuveitis, and all had posterior involvement, including uveitis, vasculitis, chorioretinitis, and optic neuritis. The most common manifestations were uveitis and retinal vasculitis. Disc hyperfluorescence and persistent dark spots were the most common findings on FFA and ICGA. The ill-defined inner segment/outer segment junction was the most frequent manifestation on SD-OCT. Patients were diagnosed with syphilitic uveitis based on positive serological tests. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was improved in 34 eyes after treatment. Eleven patients were misdiagnosed before serological tests were performed. The delay in treatment led to long-standing cystoid macular edema and optic neuropathy, which were associated with poor BCVA (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.037).The common manifestations of syphilitic chorioretinitis were uveitis, retinal vasculitis, and optic neuritis. Further diagnosis should be prompted by FFA, ICGA, and SD-OCT when ocular manifestation is suspected. The standard treatment for neurosyphilis was effective. If patients are presumed to be in low-risk groups such as HIV-negative, delays in diagnosis, and therapy may be likely. It is necessary to reiterate the importance of including syphilis uveitis as a differential diagnosis for any form of ocular inflammations, especially posterior uveitis and optic neuropathy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anti-Bacterial Agents#China#Chorioretinitis#Eye Infections, Bacterial#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Optic Neuritis#Retinal Vasculitis#Retrospective Studies#Syphilis#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Treatment Outcome#Uveitis#Visual Acuity'
b'RATIONALE: Staged hepatectomy is an important surgical method for large hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the insufficient future liver remnant (FLR) is still the major barrier in stage II hepatectomy. We herein reported a case of laparoscopic associating liver tourniquet and portal ligation combined rescue transhepatic arterial embolization (TAE) for staged hepatectomy.PATIENT CONCERNS: Laparoscopic associating liver tourniquet and portal ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALTPS) was performed for cirrhotic HCC in stage I. To stimulate the growth of FLR, a "rescue" TAE was initiated before stage II.DIAGNOSE: HCC with hepatitis B cirrhosis.OUTCOMES: Two weeks later after TAE, the FLR achieved sufficient hypertrophy and stage II surgery was successfully performed. The patient was discharged 7 days after the second stage without serious complication. During the follow-up at postoperative 6 months, the patient underwent radiofrequency ablation, because contrast-enhanced ultrasonography showed 1\xe2\x80\x8acm tumor recurrence in the remnant liver.LESSONS: Rescue TAE plays an important role to stimulate the increasing of FLR after ALTPS. labels: #Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Embolization, Therapeutic#Hepatectomy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ligation#Liver Cirrhosis#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Portal Vein#Postoperative Period#Tourniquets'
b'RATIONALE: In patients with bilateral ureteral obstruction, the serum creatinine levels are often elevated, sometimes causing postrenal acute kidney injury (AKI). In contrast, those with unilateral ureteral obstruction present normal serum creatinine levels, as long as their contralateral kidneys are preserved intact. However, the unilateral obstruction of the ureter could affect the renal function, as it humorally influences the renal hemodynamics.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 66-year-old man with a past medical history of hypertension and diabetes mellitus came to our outpatient clinic because of right abdominal dullness.DIAGNOSES: Unilateral ureteral obstruction caused by a radio-opaque calculus in the right upper ureter and a secondary renal dysfunction.INTERVENTIONS: As oral hydration and the use of calcium antagonists failed to allow the spontaneous stone passage, extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) was performed.OUTCOMES: Immediately after the passage of the stone, the number of red blood cells in the urine was dramatically decreased and the serum creatinine level almost returned to the normal range with the significant increase in glomerular filtration rate.LESSONS: Unilateral ureteral obstruction by the calculus, which caused reflex vascular constriction and ureteral spasm in the contralateral kidney, was thought to be responsible for the deteriorating renal function. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Aged#Humans#Kidney#Male#Ureteral Obstruction#Urolithiasis'
b'Angiogenesis plays an important role during bone regeneration. Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) has been proven to accelerate the process of bone fracture healing. However, the mechanism of the effect of LIPUS on bone regeneration is still unclear. In the present study, we used human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) and human osteosarcoma cell (MG-63) to investigate the effect of LIPUS stimulation in an endothelial cell-osteoblast coculture system. At the same time, we used transwell and in vitro angiogenesis assay to observe how LIPUS affects endothelial cells. The results demonstrated that LIPUS could significantly increase the migratory ability and promote tube formation in angiogenesis of HUVECs. Furthermore, LIPUS could significantly elevate the expression of osteogenesis-related genes on osteoblasts such as Runt-related transcription factor 2, alkaline phosphatase, Osteorix, and Cyclin-D1, indicating the pro-osteogenesis effect of LIPUS in our coculture system. In conclusion, endothelial cell is involved in LIPUS-accelerated bone regeneration, the positive effect of LIPUS may be transferred via endothelial cells surrounding fracture healing site. labels: #Cell Line, Tumor#Coculture Techniques#Culture Media, Conditioned#Endothelial Cells#Fracture Healing#Humans#Osteoblasts#Osteogenesis#Osteosarcoma#Ultrasonic Waves'
b'Interpersonal and communication skills are 2 essential qualities of every physician. These are separate and distinct parts of the professional character of every physician. In pediatrics these abilities present even a higher impact.We performed a survey-type prospective study based on questionnaires on 100 subjects, equally divided into 4 groups: 25 children, 25 pediatricians, 25 care-givers (parents, tutors, and relatives), and 25 health care staff, in a Tertiary Pediatric Clinic from Romania, between January 2017 and April 2017.We included 100 participants in our study, equally divided into 4 groups: pediatric patients, pediatricians, care-givers, and health care staff. The 1st group comprised 25 children diagnosed with different chronic conditions, presenting the age between 5 and 14 years. The male gender predominated among the children (57%). The lowest general average score for "Communication" section was encountered among pediatricians group, 3.8, while the other 3 groups presented the same average score for this section, that is, 4.6. The children and the health care staff offered the same average score for "Transparency," that is, 4.6, while the pediatricians offered a score of 4.5, and the care-givers of 4.7. The lowest average score for the item "Hospital environment" was given by the doctors, that is, 3.3, followed by care-givers with a score of 3.6, health care staff 3.7, and children with an average score of 3.8. All the 4 groups included in the study offered a general average of 4.9 out of 5 for the "Intercultural issues" section. The lowest average score for "Time management" section was offered by both children and pediatricians, that is, 4.1, while care-givers and health care staff had a slightly better perception regarding this item, offering 4.2 and 4.3, respectively.The opinion among the 4 groups included in the study was generally similar regarding the 5 items assessed by our questionnaires. Therefore, the main aspects that need to be improved in the health care system in downward order are the following: hospital environment, time management, communication, transparency, and intercultural issues. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Caregivers#Child#Child, Preschool#Communication#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pediatricians#Physician-Patient Relations#Prospective Studies#Romania#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend that norepinephrine (NA) should be used to reach the target mean arterial pressure (MAP) during cardiogenic shock (CS), rather than epinephrine and dopamine (DA). However, there has actually been few studies on comparing norepinephrine with dopamine and their results conflicts. These studies raise a heat discussion. This study aimed to validate the effectiveness of norepinephrine for treating CS in comparison with dopamine.METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to assess pooled estimates of risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for 28-day mortality, incidence of arrhythmic events, gastrointestinal reaction, and some indexes after treatment.RESULTS: Compared with dopamine, patients receiving norepinephrine had a lower 28-day mortality (RR 1.611 [95% CI 1.219-2.129]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01), a lower risk of arrhythmic events (RR 3.426 [95% CI 2.120-5.510]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.875) and a lower risk of gastrointestinal reaction (RR 5.474 [95% CI 2.917-10.273]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0). In subgroup analyses on 28-day mortality by causes of CS, there were more benefits from norepinephrine than dopamine in 2 subgroups.CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis revealed that norepinephrine was associated with a lower 28-day mortality, a lower risk of arrhythmic events, and gastrointestinal reaction. No matter whether CS is caused by coronary heart disease or not, norepinephrine is superior to dopamine for correcting CS on the 28-day mortality. labels: #Cardiotonic Agents#Dopamine#Humans#Norepinephrine#Odds Ratio#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Shock, Cardiogenic#Treatment Outcome'
b'Water constraints can mediate evolutionary conflict either among individuals (e.g., parent-offspring conflict, sexual conflict) or within an individual (e.g., cost of reproduction). During pregnancy, water is of particular importance because the female provides all water needed for embryonic development and experiences important maternal shifts in behavior and physiology that, together, can compromise female water balance if water availability is limited. We examined the effect of pregnancy on evaporative water loss and microhabitat selection in a viviparous snake, the aspic viper. We found that both physiological (increased metabolism and body temperature) and morphological (body distension) changes contribute to an increased evaporative water loss in pregnant females. We also found that pregnant females in the wild select warmer and moister basking locations than nonreproductive females, likely to mitigate the conflict between thermal needs and water loss. Water resources likely induce significant reproductive constraints across diverse taxa and thus warrant further consideration in ecological research. From an evolutionary perspective, water constraints during reproduction may contribute to shaping reproductive effort. labels: #Animals#Female#Viperidae#Viviparity, Nonmammalian#Water Loss, Insensible'
b"Purpose: Optic nerve hypoplasia (ONH) is the most common cause of childhood congenital blindness in developed nations, yet the fundamental pathobiology of ONH remains unknown. The objective of this study was to employ a 'face validated' murine model to determine the timing of onset and the pathologic characteristics of ONH.Methods: Based on the robust linkage between X-linked CASK haploinsufficiency and clinically diagnosed ONH, we hypothesized that heterozygous deletion of CASK (CASK(+/-)) in rodents will produce an optic nerve pathology closely recapitulating ONH. We quantitatively analyzed the entire subcortical visual system in female CASK(+/-) mice using immunohistochemistry, anterograde axonal tracing, toluidine blue staining, transmission electron microscopy, and serial block-face scanning electron microscopy.Results: CASK haploinsuffiency in mice phenocopies human ONH with complete penetrance, thus satisfying the 'face validity'. We demonstrate that the optic nerve in CASK(+/-) mice is not only thin, but is comprised of atrophic retinal axons and displays reactive astrogliosis. Myelination of the optic nerve axons remains unchanged. Moreover, we demonstrate a significant decrease in retinal ganglion cell (RGC) numbers and perturbation in retinothalamic connectivity. Finally, we used this mouse model to define the onset and progression of ONH pathology, demonstrating for the first time that optic nerve defects arise at neonatally in CASK(+/-)mice.Conclusions: Optic nerve hypoplasia is a complex neuropathology of the subcortical visual system involving RGC loss, axonopathy, and synaptopathy and originates at a developmental stage in mice that corresponds to the late third trimester development in humans. labels: #Animals#Axons#Disease Models, Animal#Disease Progression#Guanylate Kinases#Immunohistochemistry#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mutation#Optic Nerve#Optic Nerve Diseases#Retinal Ganglion Cells"
b'Voltage-sensitive dye imaging experiments in primary visual cortex (V1) have shown that local, oriented visual stimuli elicit stable orientation-selective activation within the stimulus retinotopic footprint. The cortical activation dynamically extends far beyond the retinotopic footprint, but the peripheral spread stays non-selective-a surprising finding given a number of anatomo-functional studies showing the orientation specificity of long-range connections. Here we use a computational model to investigate this apparent discrepancy by studying the expected population response using known published anatomical constraints. The dynamics of input-driven localized states were simulated in a planar neural field model with multiple sub-populations encoding orientation. The realistic connectivity profile has parameters controlling the clustering of long-range connections and their orientation bias. We found substantial overlap between the anatomically relevant parameter range and a steep decay in orientation selective activation that is consistent with the imaging experiments. In this way our study reconciles the reported orientation bias of long-range connections with the functional expression of orientation selective neural activity. Our results demonstrate this sharp decay is contingent on three factors, that long-range connections are sufficiently diffuse, that the orientation bias of these connections is in an intermediate range (consistent with anatomy) and that excitation is sufficiently balanced by inhibition. Conversely, our modelling results predict that, for reduced inhibition strength, spurious orientation selective activation could be generated through long-range lateral connections. Furthermore, if the orientation bias of lateral connections is very strong, or if inhibition is particularly weak, the network operates close to an instability leading to unbounded cortical activation. labels: #Animals#Computer Simulation#Humans#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Visual Cortex#Visual Fields#Visual Pathways#Visual Perception'
b'The purpose of this study was to determine among patients with candidemia the real rate of ophthalmoscopy and the impact of performing ocular assessment on the outcome of the disease. We performed a post hoc analysis of a prospective, multicenter, population-based candidemia surveillance program implemented in Spain during 2010-2011 (CANDIPOP). Ophthalmoscopy was performed in only 168 of the 365 patients with candidemia (46%). Ocular lesions related to candidemia were found in only 13/168 patients (7.7%), of whom 1 reported ocular symptoms (incidence of symptomatic disease in the whole population, 0.27% [1/365]). Ophthalmological findings led to a change in antifungal therapy in only 5.9% of cases (10/168), and performance of the test was not related to a better outcome. Ocular candidiasis was not associated with a worse outcome and progressed favorably in all but 1 evaluable patient, who did not experience vision loss. The low frequency of ophthalmoscopy and ocular involvement and the asymptomatic nature of ocular candidiasis, with a favorable outcome in almost all cases, lead us to reconsider the need for systematic ophthalmoscopy in all candidemic patients. labels: #Aged#Antifungal Agents#Candidemia#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ophthalmoscopy#Prospective Studies#Spain'
b"Treatment with broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) has proven effective against HIV-1 infections in humanized mice, non-human primates, and humans. Due to the high mutation rate of HIV-1, resistance testing of the patient's viral strains to the bNAbs is still inevitable. So far, bNAb resistance can only be tested in expensive and time-consuming neutralization experiments. Here, we introduce well-performing computational models that predict the neutralization response of HIV-1 to bNAbs given only the envelope sequence of the virus. Using non-linear support vector machines based on a string kernel, the models learnt even the important binding sites of bNAbs with more complex epitopes, i.e., the CD4 binding site targeting bNAbs, proving thereby the biological relevance of the models. To increase the interpretability of the models, we additionally provide a new kind of motif logo for each query sequence, visualizing those residues of the test sequence that influenced the prediction outcome the most. Moreover, we predicted the neutralization sensitivity of around 34,000 HIV-1 samples from different time points to a broad range of bNAbs, enabling the first analysis of HIV resistance to bNAbs on a global scale. The analysis showed for many of the bNAbs a trend towards antibody resistance over time, which had previously only been discovered for a small non-representative subset of the global HIV-1 population. labels: #Antibodies, Neutralizing#Binding Sites#CD4 Antigens#Drug Resistance, Viral#Epitope Mapping#HIV Antibodies#HIV-1#Humans#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Mapping#Sequence Analysis, Protein#Time Factors"
b"Arginine vasopressin (AVP), a hormone secreted by the posterior pituitary, plays a vital role in maintaining vasomotor tone during acute blood loss. We hypothesized that decompensated hemorrhagic shock is associated with decreased AVP stores and supplementation during resuscitation would improve both blood pressure and renal function. Using a decompensated hemorrhagic shock model, male Long-Evans rats were bled to mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) of 40mmHg and maintained until the MAP could not be sustained without fluid. Once 40% of the shed volume was returned in lactated Ringer's (Severe Shock), animals were resuscitated over 60 minutes with 4x the shed volume in lactated Ringer's (LR) or the same fluids with AVP (0.5 units/kg+ 0.03 units/kg/min). Animals (n = 6-9/group) were sacrificed before hemorrhage (Sham), at Severe Shock, following resuscitation (60R, 60R with AVP) or 18 hours post-resuscitation (18hr, 18hr with AVP). Blood samples were taken to measure AVP levels and renal function. Pituitaries were harvested and assayed for AVP. Kidney samples were taken to assess mitochondrial function, histology, and oxidative damage. Baseline pituitary AVP stores (30,364 \xc2\xb1 5311 pg/mg) decreased with severe shock and were significantly depressed post-resuscitation (13,910 \xc2\xb1 3016 pg/ml. p<0.05) and at 18hr (15,592 \xc2\xb11169 pg/ml, p<0.05). Resuscitation with LR+AVP led to higher serum AVP levels at 60R (31\xc2\xb18 vs 79\xc2\xb112; p<0.01) with an improved MAP both at 60R (125\xc2\xb13 vs 77\xc2\xb17mmHg; p<0.01) and 18hr (82\xc2\xb16 vs 69\xc2\xb15mmHg;p<0.05). AVP supplementation preserved complex I respiratory capacity at 60R and both complex I and II function at 18hr (p<0.05). AVP was also associated with decreased reactive oxygen species at 60R (856\xc2\xb167 vs 622\xc2\xb148F RFU) and significantly decreased oxidative damage as measured by mitochondrial lipid peroxidation (0.9\xc2\xb10.1 vs 1.7\xc2\xb10.1 fold change, p<0.01) and nitrosylation (0.9\xc2\xb10.1 vs 1.4\xc2\xb10.2 fold change, p<0.05). With AVP, renal damage was mitigated at 60R and histologic architecture was conserved at 18 hours. In conclusion, pituitary and serum AVP levels decrease during severe hemorrhage and may contribute to the development of decompensated hemorrhagic shock. Supplementing exogenous AVP during resuscitation improves blood pressure, preserves renal mitochondrial function, and mitigates acute kidney injury. labels: #Animals#Arginine Vasopressin#Kidney#Male#Mitochondria#Rats#Rats, Long-Evans#Shock, Hemorrhagic"
b'BACKGROUND/AIMS: Long-term follow-up studies validating the clinical benefit of sustained virological response (SVR) in people with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) infection are lacking. Our aim was to identify rates and predictors of liver fibrosis progression in a large, well characterized cohort of CHC patients in whom paired liver fibrosis assessments were performed more than 10 years apart.METHODS: CHC patients who had undergone a baseline liver biopsy pre-2004 and a follow up liver fibrosis assessment more than 10 years later (biopsy or liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography [FibroScan]) were identified. Subjects who had undergone a baseline liver biopsy but had no follow up fibrosis assessment were recalled for LSM. Fibrosis was categorised as mild-moderate (METAVIR F0-2 /LSM result of \xe2\x89\xa4 9.5 kPa) or advanced (METAVIR F3-4/ LSM>9.5 kPa). The primary objective was to assess the association between SVR and the rate of liver fibrosis progression over at least 10 years, defined as an increase from mild-moderate fibrosis at baseline liver biopsy (METAVIR F0-2) to advanced fibrosis at follow-up liver fibrosis assessment.RESULTS: 131 subjects were included in this analysis: 69% male, 82% Caucasian, 60% G1 HCV, 25% G3 HCV. The median age at F/U fibrosis staging was 57 (IQR 54-62) years with median estimated duration of infection 33-years (IQR 29-38). At F/U, liver fibrosis assessment was performed by LSM in 86% and liver biopsy in 14%. The median period between fibrosis assessments was 14-years (IQR 12-17). 109 (83%) participants had received interferon-based antiviral therapy. 40% attained SVR. At F/U, there was a significant increase in the proportion of subjects with advanced liver fibrosis: 27% at baseline vs. 46% at F/U (p = 0.002). The prevalence of advanced fibrosis did not change among subjects who attained SVR, 30% at B/L vs 25% at F/U (p = 0.343). However, advanced fibrosis became more common at F/U among subjects with persistent viremia: 10% at B/L vs 31% at F/U (p = 0.0001). SVR was independently associated with protection from liver fibrosis progression after adjustment for other variables including baseline ALT (p = 0.011), duration of HCV infection and mode of acquisition.CONCLUSION: HCV eradication is associated with lower rates of liver fibrosis progression. The data support early treatment to prevent long-term liver complications of HCV infection. labels: #Disease Progression#Female#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#Viral Load#Viremia'
b"Publication bias is prevalent within the scientific literature. Whilst there are multiple ideas on how to reduce publication bias, only a minority of journals have made substantive changes to address the problem. We aimed to explore the perceived feasibility of strategies to reduce publication bias by gauging opinions of journal editors (n = 73) and other academics/researchers (n = 160) regarding nine methods of publishing and peer-reviewing research: mandatory publication, negative results journals/articles, open reviewing, peer-review training and accreditation, post-publication review, pre-study publication of methodology, published rejection lists, research registration, and two-stage review. Participants completed a questionnaire asking both quantitative (multiple choice or Likert scales) and qualitative (open-ended) questions regarding the barriers to implementing each suggestion, and their strengths and limitations. Participants were asked to rate the nine suggestions, then choose the method they felt was most effective. Mandatory publication was most popularly selected as the 'most effective' method of reducing publication bias for editors (25%), and was the third most popular choice for academics/researchers (14%). The most common selection for academics/researchers was two-stage review (26%), but fewer editors prioritised this (11%). Negative results journals/articles were the second and third most common choices for academics/researchers (21%) and editors (16%), respectively. Editors more commonly chose research registration as 'most effective' (21%), which was favoured by only 6% of academics/researchers. Whilst mandatory publication was generally favoured by respondents, it is infeasible to trial at a journal level. Where suggestions have already been implemented (e.g. negative results journals/articles, trial registration), efforts should be made to objectively assess their efficacy. Two-stage review should be further trialled as its popularity amongst academics/researchers suggests it may be well received, though editors may be less receptive. Several underlying barriers to change also emerged, including scientific culture, impact factors, and researcher training; these should be further explored to reduce publication bias. labels: #Feasibility Studies#Publication Bias"
b"BACKGROUND: The relatively high incidence of cervical cancer in women at older ages is a continuing concern in countries with long-established cervical screening. Controversy remains on when and how to cease screening. Existing population-based studies on the effectiveness of cervical screening at older ages have not considered women's screening history. We performed a nationwide cohort study to investigate the incidence of cervical cancer after age 60 years and its association with cervical screening at age 61-65, stratified by screening history at age 51-60.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Using the Total Population Register, we identified 569,132 women born between 1 January 1919 and 31 December 1945, resident in Sweden since age 51. Women's cytological screening records, cervical cancer occurrence, and FIGO stage (for those diagnosed with cancer) were retrieved from national registers and medical charts. We calculated the cumulative incidence of cervical cancer from age 61 to age 80 using a survival function considering competing risk, and estimated the hazard ratio (HR) of cervical cancer in relation to screening status at age 61-65 from Cox models, adjusted for birth cohort and level of education, conditioning on women's screening history in their 50s. In women unscreened in their 50s, the cumulative incidence up to age 80 was 5.0 per 1,000 women, and screening at age 61-65 was associated with a lower risk for cervical cancer (HR = 0.42, 95% CI 0.24-0.72), corresponding to a decrease of 3.3 cancer cases per 1,000 women. A higher cumulative incidence and similarly statistically significant risk decrease was seen for women with abnormal smears in their 50s. In women adequately or inadequately screened with only normal results between age 51 and age 60, the cumulative incidence of cervical cancer from age 61 to 80 was 1.6 and 2.5 per 1,000 women, respectively, and further screening at age 61-65 was not associated with statistically significant decreases of cervical cancer risk up to age 80, but with fewer cancer cases of advanced stages at age 61-65. Adjustment for potential lifestyle confounders was limited.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, cervical screening with cytology at age 61-65 was associated with a statistically significant reduction of subsequent cervical cancer risk for women who were unscreened, or screened with abnormalities, in their 50s. In women screened with normal results in their 50s, the risk for future cancer was not sizeable, and the risk reduction associated with continued screening appeared limited. These findings should inform the current debate regarding age and criteria to discontinue cervical screening. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Age Factors#Aged#Atypical Squamous Cells of the Cervix#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cohort Studies#Early Detection of Cancer#Female#Humans#Incidence#Middle Aged#Papanicolaou Test#Proportional Hazards Models#Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions of the Cervix#Sweden#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms#Vaginal Smears"
b"Monitoring is an essential component of wildlife management and conservation. However, the usefulness of monitoring data is often undermined by the lack of 1) coordination across organizations and regions, 2) meaningful management and conservation objectives, and 3) rigorous sampling designs. Although many improvements to avian monitoring have been discussed, the recommendations have been slow to emerge in large-scale programs. We introduce the Integrated Monitoring in Bird Conservation Regions (IMBCR) program designed to overcome the above limitations. Our objectives are to outline the development of a statistically defensible sampling design to increase the value of large-scale monitoring data and provide example applications to demonstrate the ability of the design to meet multiple conservation and management objectives. We outline the sampling process for the IMBCR program with a focus on the Badlands and Prairies Bird Conservation Region (BCR 17). We provide two examples for the Brewer's sparrow (Spizella breweri) in BCR 17 demonstrating the ability of the design to 1) determine hierarchical population responses to landscape change and 2) estimate hierarchical habitat relationships to predict the response of the Brewer's sparrow to conservation efforts at multiple spatial scales. The collaboration across organizations and regions provided economy of scale by leveraging a common data platform over large spatial scales to promote the efficient use of monitoring resources. We designed the IMBCR program to address the information needs and core conservation and management objectives of the participating partner organizations. Although it has been argued that probabilistic sampling designs are not practical for large-scale monitoring, the IMBCR program provides a precedent for implementing a statistically defensible sampling design from local to bioregional scales. We demonstrate that integrating conservation and management objectives with rigorous statistical design and analyses ensures reliable knowledge about bird populations that is relevant and integral to bird conservation at multiple scales. labels: #Animals#Birds#Conservation of Natural Resources#Environmental Monitoring"
b"OBJECTIVE: This study sought to examine the sources of inequity in health examination service utilization by women from underdeveloped areas in western China.METHODS: Based on data from the 5th National Health Service Survey in Shaanxi province, women's utilization of health examination services was examined according to gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates. The equity of health examination service utilization by 15- to 64-year-old women and the factors contributing to inequity were determined using the health concentration index, decomposition of the concentration index, and the horizontal inequity index.RESULTS: The examination rates for gynecological, cervical smear, and breast exams for 15- to 64-year-old women in Shaanxi province were 40.61%, 27.08%, and 24.59%, respectively. The horizontal inequity indices of gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 0.0480, 0.0423, and 0.0764, respectively, and each examination rate was higher for wealthy individuals. The contribution rates of economic status to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 65.80%, 74.31%, and 56.49%, respectively. The contribution rates of educational status to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 21.01%, 14.83% and 30.00%, respectively. The contribution rates of age to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 25.77%, 26.55%, and 18.40%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Women's health examination rates differed between populations with different socio-demographic characteristics. There is pro-wealth inequality in each examination rate. This study found that financial status, age, and education level were the main reasons for the unequal utilization of health examination services. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#China#Female#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Medically Underserved Area#Middle Aged#Papanicolaou Test#Physical Examination#Women's Health Services#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: A close relationship between Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) has been described, but the exact nature of this link remains unclear. Current epidemiological data refer exclusively to the MetS prevalence among patients with COPD and data about the prevalence of COPD in MetS patients are still unavailable.AIM OF THE STUDY: To analyse and compare risk factors, clinical and metabolic characteristics, as well as the main respiratory function parameters, among patients affected by MetS, COPD or both diseases.PATIENTS: We recruited 59 outpatients with MetS and 76 outpatients with COPD. After medical history collection, physical examination, blood sampling for routine analysis, spirometric evaluation, they were subdivided into MetS (n = 46), MetS+COPD (n = 60), COPD (n = 29).RESULTS: A MetS diagnosis was assigned to 62% of COPD patients recruited in the COPD Outpatients Clinic of the Pneumology Department, while the COPD prevalence in MetS patients enrolled in the Internal Medicine Metabolic Disorders Outpatients Clinic was 22%. More than 60% of subjects enrolled in each Department were unaware that they suffered from an additional disease. MetS+COPD patients exhibited significantly higher C-peptide levels. We also found a positive relation between C-peptide and pack-years in all subjects and a negative correlation between C-peptide and vitamin D only in current smokers. Finally, a negative association emerged between smoking and vitamin D.CONCLUSIONS: We have estimated, for the first time, the COPD prevalence in MetS and suggest a potential role of smoking in inducing insulin resistance. Moreover, a direct effect of smoking on vitamin D levels is proposed as a novel mechanism, which may account for both insulin resistance and COPD development. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Smoking#Vitamin D'
b'ApbE is a member of a novel family of flavin transferases that incorporates flavin mononucleotide (FMN) to subunits of diverse respiratory complexes, which fulfill important homeostatic functions. In this work a detailed characterization of Vibrio cholerae ApbE physiologic activity, substrate specificity and pH dependency was carried out. The data obtained show novel characteristics of the regulation and function of this family. For instance, our experiments indicate that divalent cations are essential for ApbE function, and that the selectivity depends largely on size and the coordination sphere of the cation. Our data also show that ApbE regulation by pH, ADP and potassium is an important mechanism that enhances the adaptation, survival and colonization of V. cholerae in the small intestine. Moreover, studies of the pH-dependency of the activity show that the reaction is favored under alkaline conditions, with a pKa of 8.4. These studies, together with sequence and structure analysis allowed us to identify His257, which is absolutely conserved in the family, as a candidate for the residue whose deprotonation controls the activity. Remarkably, the mutant H257G abolished the flavin transfer activity, strongly indicating that this residue plays an important role in the catalytic mechanism of ApbE. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Cations, Divalent#Cations, Monovalent#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Kinetics#Substrate Specificity#Vibrio cholerae'
b'Suboptimal gestational weight gain (GWG), which is linked to increased risk of adverse outcomes for a pregnant woman and her infant, is prevalent. In the study of a large cohort of Canadian pregnant women, our goals are to estimate the individual weight growth trajectory using sparsely collected bodyweight data, and to identify the factors affecting the weight change during pregnancy, such as prepregnancy body mass index (BMI), dietary intakes and physical activity. The first goal was achieved through functional principal component analysis (FPCA) by conditional expectation. For the second goal, we used linear regression with the total weight gain as the response variable. The trajectory modeling through FPCA had a significantly smaller root mean square error (RMSE) and improved adaptability than the classic nonlinear mixed-effect models, demonstrating a novel tool that can be used to facilitate real time monitoring and interventions of GWG. Our regression analysis showed that prepregnancy BMI had a high predictive value for the weight changes during pregnancy, which agrees with the published weight gain guideline. labels: #Body Mass Index#Female#Humans#Models, Theoretical#Pregnancy#Principal Component Analysis#Weight Gain'
b'Condomless anal sex between male partners is the primary risk factor for HIV transmission among men who have sex with men (MSM). Correlates of condomless anal sex have been well-studied in developed countries, but they have received less attention in lower-to-middle income countries (LMIC), where MSM are often subject to stigma, discrimination, intolerance, and even the criminalization of same sex behavior. In Mexico, a LMIC where traditional views on homosexuality are common, HIV prevalence among MSM is high (16.9%), yet little research has been conducted on the correlates of condomless anal sex in this high-risk population. The present study examined correlates of condomless anal sex among 201 MSM recruited in Tijuana, Mexico, with a focus on the role of public sex venues in relation to sexual risk behavior. Eligibility requirements were: biologically male, 18 years of age or older, resident of Tijuana, and self-reported anal or oral sex with a male partner in the past year. Participants completed an interviewer-administered, demographic and psychosocial survey, and were tested for HIV and syphilis. A hierarchical multiple linear regression model was tested to identify correlates of condomless anal sex. Thirty-eight percent of participants (N = 76) reported condomless anal sex with a male partner in the past 2 months. Higher levels of condomless anal sex were associated with higher levels of depressive symptoms, greater sexual compulsivity, and more frequent seeking out of sex partners in a public venue in the past 2 months. In view of these findings, we recommend the development of multi-level, "combination" interventions, which in the Mexican context should include enhanced condom promotion and distribution, improved availability and access to mental health treatment and counseling services, and expanded HIV/STI testing in public venues. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Condoms#HIV Infections#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Sexual Behavior#Sexual Partners#Young Adult'
b'Renalase decreases circulating catecholamines concentration and is important in maintaining primary cellular metabolism. Renalase acts through the plasma membrane calcium ATPase 4b in the heart, which affects pressure overload but not exercise induced heart hypertrophy. The aim of this study was to test the association between a functional polymorphism Glu37Asp (rs2296545) of the renalase gene and left ventricular hypertrophy in a large cohort of patients with aortic stenosis. The study group consisted of 657 patients with aortic stenosis referred for aortic valve replacement. Preoperative echocardiographic assessment was performed to obtain cardiac phenotypes. Generalized-linear models were implemented to analyze data using crude or full model adjusted for selected clinical factors. In females, the Asp37 variant of the Glu37Asp polymorphism was associated with higher left ventricular mass (p = 0.0021 and p = 0.055 crude and full model respectively), intraventricular septal thickness (p = 0.0003 and p = 0.0143) and posterior wall thickness (p = 0.0005 and p = 0.0219) all indexed to body surface area, as well as relative wall thickness (p = 0.001 and p = 0.0097). No significant associations were found among the male patients. In conclusion, we have found the association of the renalase Glu37Asp polymorphism with left ventricle hypertrophy in large group of females with aortic stenosis. The Glu37Asp polymorphism causes not only amino-acid substitution in FAD binding domain but may also change binding affinity of the hypoxia- and hypertrophy-related transcription factors and influence renalase gene expression. Our data suggest that renalase might play a role in hypertrophic response to pressure overload, but the exact mechanism requires further investigation. labels: #Aged#Aortic Valve Stenosis#Binding Sites#Cardiomegaly#Cohort Studies#Echocardiography#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Monoamine Oxidase#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Transcription Factors'
b"TW-37 is a novel, potent and non-peptide Bcl-2 small-molecule inhibitor. Its activity in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells is studied. In both HCT-116 cells and primary human colon cancer cells, treatment with TW-37 at only nM concentration efficiently inhibited cell survival and proliferation. TW-37 also induced caspase-3/9 and apoptosis activation in CRC cells. Feedback autophagy activation was observed in TW-37-treated CRC cells. Reversely pharmacological autophagy inhibition or Beclin-1 knockdown by targeted-shRNA potentiated TW-37-induced apoptosis and killing of CRC cells. In vivo, intravenous injection of TW-37 inhibited HCT-116 tumor growth in mice. TW-37's anti-tumor activity was further potentiated against Beclin-1-silenced HCT-116 tumors. Together, targeting Bcl-2 family protein by TW-37 efficiently inhibits CRC cell growth in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of feedback autophagy activation could further sensitize TW-37. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Benzamides#Cell Proliferation#Colorectal Neoplasms#HCT116 Cells#Humans#Mice#Mice, SCID#Sulfones#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'Theoretical models of populations and swarms typically start with the assumption that the motion of agents is governed by the local stimuli. However, an intelligent agent, with some understanding of the laws that govern its habitat, can anticipate the future, and make predictions to gather resources more efficiently. Here we study a specific model of this kind, where agents aim to maximize their consumption of a diffusing resource, by attempting to predict the future of a resource field and the actions of other agents. Once the agents make a prediction, they are attracted to move towards regions that have, and will have, denser resources. We find that the further the agents attempt to see into the future, the more their attempts at prediction fail, and the less resources they consume. We also study the case where predictive agents compete against non-predictive agents and find the predictors perform better than the non-predictors only when their relative numbers are very small. We conclude that predictivity pays off either when the predictors do not see too far into the future or the number of predictors is small. labels: #Diffusion#Models, Theoretical#Motion'
b'Neisseria meningitidis is the causative agent of invasive meningococcal disease (IMD). A recombinant vaccine called Bexsero\xc2\xae incorporates four subcapsular antigens (fHbp, NHBA, NadA and PorA) which are used to assign a Bexsero\xc2\xae antigen sequence type (BAST) to each meningococcal strain. The vaccine elicits an immune response against combinations of variants of these antigens which have been grouped into specific BAST profiles that have been shown to have different distributions within geographical locations thus potentially affecting the efficacy of the vaccine. In this study, invasive meningococcal disease isolates from the western seaboard of Australia (Western Australia; WA) were compared to those from the south-eastern seaboard (Victoria; VIC) from 2008 to 2012. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) of 131 meningococci from VIC and 70 meningococci from WA were analysed for MLST, FetA and BAST profiling. Serogroup B predominated in both jurisdictions and a total of 10 MLST clonal complexes (cc) were shared by both states. Isolates belonging to cc22, cc103 and cc1157 were unique to VIC whilst isolates from cc60 and cc212 were unique to WA. Clonal complex 41/44 represented one-third of the meningococcal population in each state but the predominant ST was locally different: ST-6058 in VIC and ST-146 in WA. Of the 108 BAST profiles identified in this collection, only 9 BASTs were simultaneously observed in both states. A significantly larger proportion of isolates in VIC harboured alleles for the NHBA-2 peptide and fHbp-1, antigenic variants predicted to be covered by the Bexsero\xc2\xae vaccine. The estimate for vaccine coverage in WA (47.1% [95% CI: 41.1-53.1%]) was significantly lower than that in VIC (66.4% [95% CI: 62.3-70.5%]). In conclusion, the antigenic structure of meningococci causing invasive disease in two geographically distinct states of Australia differed significantly during the study period which may affect vaccine effectiveness and highlights the need for representative surveillance when predicting potential impact of meningococcal B vaccines. labels: #Antigens, Bacterial#Genes, Bacterial#Humans#Neisseria meningitidis#Victoria#Western Australia'
b"The progression of Alzheimer's disease is causatively linked to the accumulation of amyloid-\xce\xb2 aggregates in the brain, however, it is not clear how the amyloid aggregates initiate the death of neuronal cells. The in vitro toxic effects of amyloid peptides are most commonly examined using the human neuroblastoma derived SH-SY5Y cell line and here we show that differentiated neuron-like SH-SY5Y cells are more sensitive to amyloid peptides than non-differentiated cells, because the latter lack long neurites. Exogenous soluble amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 covered cell bodies and whole neurites in differentiated cells with dense fibrils, causing neurite beading and fragmentation, whereas preformed amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 fibrils had no toxic effects. Importantly, spontaneously fibrillizing amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 peptide exhibited substantially higher cellular toxicity than amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-40, which did not form fibrils under the experimental conditions. These results support the hypothesis that peptide toxicity is related to the active fibrillization process in the incubation mixture. labels: #Amyloid beta-Peptides#Apoptosis#Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Tumor#Humans#Neurites#Peptide Fragments"
b"Tuberculosis is a fatal human infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) that is prevalent worldwide. Mycobacteria differ from other bacteria in that they have a cell wall composed of specific surface glycans that are the major determinant of these organisms' pathogenicity. The interaction of M. tuberculosis with pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), in particular C-type lectin receptors (CLRs), on the surface of macrophages plays a central role in initiating innate and adaptive immunity, but the picture as a whole remains a puzzle. Defining novel mechanisms by which host receptors interact with pathogens in order to modulate a specific immune response is an area of intense research. In this study, based on an in vitro lectin binding assay, CLEC9A (DNGR-1) is identified as a novel CLR that binds with mycobacteria. Our results with CLEC9A-knocked down cells and a CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein as blocking agents show that CLEC9A is involved in the activation of SYK and MAPK signaling in response to heat-killed M. tuberculosis H37Ra treatment, and it then promotes the production of CXCL8 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in macrophages. The CXCL8 and IL-1\xce\xb2 secreted by the activated macrophages are critical to neutrophil recruitment and activation. In a in vivo mouse model, when the interaction between CLEC9A and H37Ra is interfered with by treatment with CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein, this reduces lung inflammation and cell infiltration. These findings demonstrate that CLEC9A is a specialized receptor that modulates the innate immune response when there is a mycobacterial infection. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Hot Temperature#Humans#Lectins, C-Type#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Neutrophils#Protein Kinases#Receptors, Mitogen#Signal Transduction"
b'Neuromodulation of peripheral nerves with bioelectronic devices is a promising approach for treating a wide range of disorders. Wireless powering could enable long-term operation of these devices, but achieving high performance for miniaturized and deeply placed devices remains a technological challenge. We report the miniaturized integration of a wireless powering system in soft neuromodulation device (15 mm length, 2.7 mm diameter) and demonstrate high performance (about 10%) during in vivo wireless stimulation of the vagus nerve in a porcine animal model. The increased performance is enabled by the generation of a focused and circularly polarized field that enhances efficiency and provides immunity to polarization misalignment. These performance characteristics establish the clinical potential of wireless powering for emerging therapies based on neuromodulation. labels: #Animals#Electrodes#Equipment Design#Female#Miniaturization#Peripheral Nerves#Swine#Wireless Technology'
b'Alopecia X is a hair cycle arrest disorder in Pomeranians. Histologically, kenogen and telogen hair follicles predominate, whereas anagen follicles are sparse. The induction of anagen relies on the activation of hair follicle stem cells and their subsequent proliferation and differentiation. Stem cell function depends on finely tuned interactions of signaling molecules and transcription factors, which are not well defined in dogs. We performed transcriptome profiling on skin biopsies to analyze altered molecular pathways in alopecia X. Biopsies from five affected and four non-affected Pomeranians were investigated. Differential gene expression revealed a downregulation of key regulator genes of the Wnt (CTNNB1, LEF1, TCF3, WNT10B) and Shh (SHH, GLI1, SMO, PTCH2) pathways. In mice it has been shown that Wnt and Shh signaling results in stem cell activation and differentiation Thus our findings are in line with the lack of anagen hair follicles in dogs with Alopecia X. We also observed a significant downregulation of the stem cell markers SOX9, LHX2, LGR5, TCF7L1 and GLI1 whereas NFATc1, a quiescence marker, was upregulated in alopecia X. Moreover, genes coding for enzymes directly involved in the sex hormone metabolism (CYP1A1, CYP1B1, HSD17B14) were differentially regulated in alopecia X. These findings are in agreement with the so far proposed but not yet proven deregulation of the sex hormone metabolism in this disease. labels: #Alopecia#Animals#Biomarkers#Dogs#Female#Hair#Male#Receptors, Calcitriol#Stem Cells'
b'BACKGROUND: We have previously shown that an HIV vaccine regimen including three doses of HIV-modified vaccinia virus Ankara vector expressing HIV-1 antigens from clade B (MVA-B) was safe and elicited moderate and durable (1 year) T-cell and antibody responses in 75% and 95% of HIV-negative volunteers (n = 24), respectively (RISVAC02 study). Here, we describe the long-term durability of vaccine-induced responses and the safety and immunogenicity of an additional MVA-B boost.METHODS: 13 volunteers from the RISVAC02 trial were recruited to receive a fourth dose of MVA-B 4 years after the last immunization. End-points were safety, cellular and humoral immune responses to HIV-1 and vector antigens assessed by ELISPOT, intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) and ELISA performed before and 2, 4 and 12 weeks after receiving the boost.RESULTS: Volunteers reported 64 adverse events (AEs), although none was a vaccine-related serious AE. After 4 years from the 1st dose of the vaccine, only 2 volunteers maintained low HIV-specific T-cell responses. After the late MVA-B boost, a modest increase in IFN-\xce\xb3 T-cell responses, mainly directed against Env, was detected by ELISPOT in 5/13 (38%) volunteers. ICS confirmed similar results with 45% of volunteers showing that CD4+ T-cell responses were mainly directed against Env, whereas CD8+ T cell-responses were similarly distributed against Env, Gag and GPN. In terms of antibody responses, 23.1% of the vaccinees had detectable Env-specific binding antibodies 4 years after the last MVA-B immunization with a mean titer of 96.5. The late MVA-B boost significantly improved both the response rate (92.3%) and the magnitude of the systemic binding antibodies to gp120 (mean titer of 11460). HIV-1 neutralizing antibodies were also enhanced and detected in 77% of volunteers. Moreover, MVA vector-specific T cell and antibody responses were boosted in 80% and 100% of volunteers respectively.CONCLUSIONS: One boost of MVA-B four years after receiving 3 doses of the same vaccine was safe, induced moderate increases in HIV-specific T cell responses in 38% of volunteers but significantly boosted the binding and neutralizing antibody responses to HIV-1 and to the MVA vector.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01923610. labels: #AIDS Vaccines#Antibodies, Neutralizing#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#HIV Antibodies#HIV-1#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Immunization, Secondary#Placebos'
b"The African lion is the only big cat listed on CITES Appendix II, and the only one for which international commercial trade is legal under CITES. The trade in lion body parts, and especially the contentious trade in bones from South Africa to Asia, has raised concerns spanning continents and cultures. Debates were amplified at the 2016 CITES Conference of the Parties (CoP17) when a proposal to up-list lions to Appendix I was not supported and a compromise to keep them on Appendix II, with a bone trade quota for South Africa, was reached instead. CoP17 underscored a need for further information on the lion bone trade and the consequences for lions across the continent. Legal international trade in bones to Asia, allegedly to supply the substitute 'tiger bone' market, began in South Africa in February 2008 when the first CITES permits were issued. It was initially unclear the degree to which bones were sourced from captive-origin lions, and whether trade was a threat to wild lion populations. Our original assessment of the legal CITES-permitted lion bone trade from South Africa to East-Southeast Asia was for the period 2008-2011 (published 2015). In this paper, we consolidate new information that has become available for 2012-2016, including CITES reports from other African countries, and data on actual exports for three years to 2016 supplied by a freight forwarding company. Thus, we update the figures on the legal trade in lion bones from Africa to East-Southeast Asia in the period 2008-2016. We also contextualise the basis for global concerns by reviewing the history of the trade and its relation to tigers, poaching and wildlife trafficking. CITES permits issued to export bones escalated from \xc2\xb1314y-1 skeletons from 2008-2011, to \xc2\xb11312y-1 skeletons from 2013-2015. South Africa was the only legal exporter of bones to Asia until 2013 when Namibia issued permits to export skeletons to Vietnam. While CITES permits to export \xc2\xb15363 skeletons from Africa to Asia from 2008-2015 were issued (99.1% from South Africa; 0.7% from Namibia) (51% for Laos), actual exports were less than stated on the permits. However, information on actual exports from 2014-2016 indicated that>3400 skeletons were exported in that period. In total,>6000 skeletons weighing no less than 70 tonnes have been shipped to East-Southeast Asia since 2008. Since few wild lions are hunted and poached within South African protected areas, skeletons for the legal trade appear to be derived from captive bred lions. However, confirmation of a 116kg shipment from Uganda to Laos, and reports of lion poaching in neighbouring countries, indicate that urgent proactive monitoring and evaluation of the legal and illegal trade is necessary in African lion range states where vulnerable wild lion populations are likely to be adversely affected. labels: #Africa#Animals#Asia, Southeastern#Bone and Bones#Commerce#Lions"
b'The initial theoretical connections between Leontief input-output models and Markov chains were established back in 1950s. However, considering the wide variety of mathematical properties of Markov chains, so far there has not been a full investigation of evolving world economic networks with Markov chain formalism. In this work, using the recently available world input-output database, we investigated the evolution of the world economic network from 1995 to 2011 through analysis of a time series of finite Markov chains. We assessed different aspects of this evolving system via different known properties of the Markov chains such as mixing time, Kemeny constant, steady state probabilities and perturbation analysis of the transition matrices. First, we showed how the time series of mixing times and Kemeny constants could be used as an aggregate index of globalization. Next, we focused on the steady state probabilities as a measure of structural power of the economies that are comparable to GDP shares of economies as the traditional index of economies welfare. Further, we introduced two measures of systemic risk, called systemic influence and systemic fragility, where the former is the ratio of number of influenced nodes to the total number of nodes, caused by a shock in the activity of a node, and the latter is based on the number of times a specific economic node is affected by a shock in the activity of any of the other nodes. Finally, focusing on Kemeny constant as a global indicator of monetary flow across the network, we showed that there is a paradoxical effect of a change in activity levels of economic nodes on the overall flow of the world economic network. While the economic slowdown of the majority of nodes with high structural power results to a slower average monetary flow over the network, there are some nodes, where their slowdowns improve the overall quality of the network in terms of connectivity and the average flow of the money. labels: #Economics#Internationality#Markov Chains#Models, Theoretical'
b'Recent findings suggest that vertebral osteophytes increase the resistance of the spine to compression. However, the role of vertebral osteophytes on the biomechanical response of the spine under fast dynamic compression, up to failure, is unclear. Seventeen human spine specimens composed of three vertebrae (from T5-T7 to T11-L1) and their surrounding soft tissues were harvested from nine cadavers, aged 77 to 92 years. Specimens were imaged using quantitative computer tomography (QCT) for medical observation, classification of the intervertebral disc degeneration (Thomson grade) and measurement of the vertebral trabecular density (VTD), height and cross-sectional area. Specimens were divided into two groups (with (n = 9) or without (n = 8) substantial vertebral body osteophytes) and compressed axially at a dynamic displacement rate of 1 m/s, up to failure. Normalized force-displacement curves, videos and QCT images allowed characterizing failure parameters (force, displacement and energy at failure) and fracture patterns. Results were analyzed using chi-squared tests for sampling distributions and linear regression for correlations between VTD and failure parameters. Specimens with substantial vertebral body osteophytes present higher stiffness (2.7 times on average) and force at failure (1.8 times on average) than other segments. The presence of osteophytes significantly influences the location, pattern and type of fracture. VTD was a good predictor of the dynamic force and energy at failure for specimens without substantial osteophytes. This study also showed that vertebral body osteophytes provide a protective mechanism to the underlying vertebra against severe compression fractures. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Cadaver#Female#Fractures, Compression#History, 18th Century#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Osteophyte#Spinal Fractures#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b"The aim of this study was to determine the normal location, wall thickness and motility of the right dorsal colon in adult ponies and miniature horses. The abdominal ultrasonography examination was performed in a study group consisting of 23 ponies and miniature horses and in a control group comprising ten Thoroughbred horses. The procedure was performed in unsedated standing animals. The location and the thickness of the right dorsal colonic wall was examined on the right side of the abdomen between the 10th and the 14th intercostal space. The contractility was recorded in the 12th intercostal space. A comparative analysis between the study group and control group was carried out using the Student's t-test. Pearson's linear correlation coefficient was used to calculate the correlation between the thickness of the colonic wall as well as the number of peristaltic movements and age, wither height and body mass of the animals. The right dorsal colon was identified in all the horses in the 12th intercostal space. In all the intercostal spaces the mean \xc2\xb1 standard deviation (SD) wall thickness of the right dorsal colon was 0.27 \xc2\xb1 0.03 cm in the horses from the study group and 0.37 \xc2\xb1 0.03 cm in the control horses. The mean number of peristaltic contractions was 4.05 \xc2\xb1 1.07 per minute in the animals from the study group and 1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.46 contractions per minute in the control group. The values of the ultrasonographic wall thickness and peristaltic motility in small breed horses in the present study were different from the values obtained for large breed horses. The study also found that the right dorsal colon in small breed horses is physiologically located in the 12th intercostal space. This suggests that different reference values should be used in small horse breeds when performing an ultrasound examination. labels: #Animals#Colon#Horse Diseases#Horses#Peristalsis#Ultrasonography"
b"Citizen report cards on health care providers have been identified as a potential means to increase citizen engagement, provider accountability and health systems performance. Research in high-income settings indicates that the wording, presentation and display of performance information are critical to achieve these goals. However, there are limited insights on developing effective report card designs for middle- and low-income settings. We conducted cognitive interviews to assess consumers' understanding, interpretation of and preferences for displaying information for a health care report card in rural Tajikistan. We recruited a convenience sample of 40 citizens (20 women and 20 men aged 18-45) from rural areas of two provinces of Tajikistan (Soghd and Khatlon oblasts). The interview protocol was adapted from the model of cognitive interviews used in social science research to improve survey questionnaires. We used multivariate regression to assess understanding and interpretation of the report card; chi2 tests to assess differences in preferences for displaying information; and tests of proportions to assess the preferred comparison group. Respondents understood the main idea of the report card and are not confused by the indicators or display. However, many respondents had difficulties making comparisons, and when asked to identify worst-performing services. Respondents preferred detailed rankings using school grades, comparisons of their local clinic with the regional or national average performance, and the use of color in the report card. We found some heterogeneity across the two provinces. Overall, our findings are promising regarding the citizens' comprehension of health care report cards in rural Tajikistan, while underscoring the challenges of effectively providing health care performance information to communities. Cognitive interviews and iterative testing can support an effective implementation of reporting initiatives. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Developing Countries#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Male#Middle Aged#Primary Health Care#Rural Health Services#Tajikistan#Young Adult"
b'Open scholarship, such as the sharing of articles, code, data, and educational resources, has the potential to improve university research and education as well as increase the impact universities can have beyond their own walls. To support this perspective, I present evidence from case studies, published literature, and personal experiences as a practicing open scholar. I describe some of the challenges inherent to practicing open scholarship and some of the tensions created by incompatibilities between institutional policies and personal practice. To address this, I propose several concrete actions universities could take to support open scholarship and outline ways in which such initiatives could benefit the public as well as institutions. Importantly, I do not think most of these actions would require new funding but rather a redistribution of existing funds and a rewriting of internal policies to better align with university missions of knowledge dissemination and societal impact. labels: #Information Dissemination#Research#Universities'
b'BACKGROUND: Data on long-term outcomes of patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) in sub-Saharan Africa are few. We describe outcomes of patients commenced on ART at Newlands Clinic between 2004 and 2006 after \xe2\x89\xa510 years of comprehensive care including, psychosocial, adherence and food support.METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, patient data from an electronic medical record collected during routine care were analysed. We describe baseline characteristics, virological and clinical outcomes, attrition rates, and treatment adverse effects until November 2016. We defined virological suppression as viral load<50 copies/ml and virological failure as>1000 copies/ml after \xe2\x89\xa56 months of ART.RESULTS: We analysed data for 605 patients (67% female) who commenced ART, and were followed-up for 5819 person-years (median: 10.7 years, IQR: 10.1-11.4). Median age at ART initiation was 34 years (IQR: 17-42). Pre-ART, 129 (21.3%) patients had history of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB). In care, 66 (11%) developed PTB, and 24 (4%) developed extrapulmonary tuberculosis. 385 (63.6%) patients experienced \xe2\x89\xa51 adverse event, the most frequent being stavudine-induced peripheral neuropathy (n = 252, 41.7%). At database closure on 14 November 2016, 474 (78.3%) patients were still in care, 428 (90.3%) being virologically suppressed, and 21 (4.4%) failing. While 483 (79.8%) remained on first line, 122 (20.2%) were switched to second line ART. Fifty-nine patients (9.8%) were transferred to other ART facilities, 45 (7.4%) were lost to follow-up, 25 (4.1%) died, and two stopped ART.CONCLUSION: Comprehensive HIV care can result in low mortality, high retention in care and virologic suppression rates in resource limited settings. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Ambulatory Care Facilities#Anti-HIV Agents#Cohort Studies#Comprehensive Health Care#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Lost to Follow-Up#Male#Young Adult#Zimbabwe'
b'Genetic disruption of the dystrophin complex produces muscular dystrophy characterized by a fragile muscle plasma membrane leading to excessive muscle degeneration. Two genetic modifiers of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy implicate the transforming growth factor \xce\xb2 (TGF\xce\xb2) pathway, osteopontin encoded by the SPP1 gene and latent TGF\xce\xb2 binding protein 4 (LTBP4). We now evaluated the functional effect of these modifiers in the context of muscle injury and repair to elucidate their mechanisms of action. We found that excess osteopontin exacerbated sarcolemmal injury, and correspondingly, that loss of osteopontin reduced injury extent both in isolated myofibers and in muscle in vivo. We found that ablation of osteopontin was associated with reduced expression of TGF\xce\xb2 and TGF\xce\xb2-associated pathways. We identified that increased TGF\xce\xb2 resulted in reduced expression of Anxa1 and Anxa6, genes encoding key components of the muscle sarcolemma resealing process. Genetic manipulation of Ltbp4 in dystrophic muscle also directly modulated sarcolemmal resealing, and Ltbp4 alleles acted in concert with Anxa6, a distinct modifier of muscular dystrophy. These data provide a model in which a feed forward loop of TGF\xce\xb2 and osteopontin directly impacts the capacity of muscle to recover from injury, and identifies an intersection of genetic modifiers on muscular dystrophy. labels: #Animals#Annexin A1#Annexin A6#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Genes, Modifier#Latent TGF-beta Binding Proteins#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred DBA#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Dystrophy, Animal#Osteopontin#Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta#Recovery of Function#Sarcolemma'
b'Coral reef ecosystems of many sub-tropical and tropical marine coastal environments have suffered significant degradation from anthropogenic sources. Research to inform management strategies that mitigate stressors and promote a healthy ecosystem has focused on the ecology and physiology of coral reefs and associated organisms. Few studies focus on the surrounding pelagic communities, which are equally important to ecosystem function. Zooplankton, often dominated by small crustaceans such as copepods, is an important food source for invertebrates and fishes, especially larval fishes. The reef-associated zooplankton includes a sub-neustonic copepod family that could serve as an indicator species for the community. Here, we describe the generation of a de novo transcriptome for one such copepod, Labidocera madurae, a pontellid from an intensively-studied coral reef ecosystem, K\xc4\x81ne\'ohe Bay, Oahu, Hawai\'i. The transcriptome was assembled using high-throughput sequence data obtained from whole organisms. It comprised 211,002 unique transcripts, including 72,391 with coding regions. It was assessed for quality and completeness using multiple workflows. Bench-marking-universal-single-copy-orthologs (BUSCO) analysis identified transcripts for 88% of expected eukaryotic core proteins. Targeted gene-discovery analyses included searches for transcripts coding full-length "giant" proteins (>4,000 amino acids), proteins and splice variants of voltage-gated sodium channels, and proteins involved in the circadian signaling pathway. Four different reference transcriptomes were generated and compared for the detection of differential gene expression between copepodites and adult females; 6,229 genes were consistently identified as differentially expressed between the two regardless of reference. Automated bioinformatics analyses and targeted manual gene curation suggest that the de novo assembled L. madurae transcriptome is of high quality and completeness. This transcriptome provides a new resource for assessing the global physiological status of a planktonic species inhabiting a coral reef ecosystem that is subjected to multiple anthropogenic stressors. The workflows provide a template for generating and assessing transcriptomes in other non-model species. labels: #Animals#Copepoda#Coral Reefs#Ecosystem#Environmental Monitoring#Hawaii#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Transcriptome'
b'Estrogens act by binding to estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ER\xce\xb1, ER\xce\xb2), ligand-dependent transcription factors that play crucial roles in sex differentiation, tumor growth and cardiovascular physiology. Estrogens also activate the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER), however the function of GPER in vivo is less well understood. Here we find that GPER is required for normal heart rate in zebrafish embryos. Acute exposure to estrogens increased heart rate in wildtype and in ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 mutant embryos but not in GPER mutants. GPER mutant embryos exhibited reduced basal heart rate, while heart rate was normal in ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 mutants. We detected gper transcript in discrete regions of the brain and pituitary but not in the heart, suggesting that GPER acts centrally to regulate heart rate. In the pituitary, we observed gper expression in cells that regulate levels of thyroid hormone triiodothyronine (T3), a hormone known to increase heart rate. Compared to wild type, GPER mutants had reduced levels of T3 and estrogens, suggesting pituitary abnormalities. Exposure to exogenous T3, but not estradiol, rescued the reduced heart rate phenotype in gper mutant embryos, demonstrating that T3 acts downstream of GPER to regulate heart rate. Using genetic and mass spectrometry approaches, we find that GPER regulates maternal estrogen levels, which are required for normal embryonic heart rate. Our results demonstrate that estradiol plays a previously unappreciated role in the acute modulation of heart rate during zebrafish embryonic development and suggest that GPER regulates embryonic heart rate by altering maternal estrogen levels and embryonic T3 levels. labels: #Animals#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Embryonic Development#Estradiol#Estrogens#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Heart Rate#Mutation#Pituitary Gland#Receptors, Estrogen#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Signal Transduction#Triiodothyronine#Zebrafish#Zebrafish Proteins'
b'INTRODUCTION: The prognostic value of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations and the correlation between EGFR mutations and the new International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer/American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society (IASLC/ATS/ERS) histological classification remain controversial. The current study aimed to investigate the pure prognostic role of EGFR mutations in treatment-na\xc3\xafve patients with resected stage I lung adenocarcinoma.METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 373 patients with stage I pulmonary non-small-cell lung cancer who underwent complete surgical resection between January 2010 and May 2014. The tumors were classified according to IASLC/ATS/ERS criteria. EGFR mutation status was determined by established methods.RESULTS: A total of 120 patients were included for analysis; 87 had tumors with EGFR mutations and 33 had wild-type tumors. More low- and intermediate-grade tumors had EGFR mutations, and nearly half of the high-grade tumors were wild-type (75.7% versus 46.2%, p = 0.041). Patients with low-grade tumors had significantly greater median disease-free survival (DFS) (76.8 versus 13 months, p<0.0001) and better overall survival (OS) (median OS not reached, p = 0.0003) than those with intermediate- and high-grade tumors. Tumor recurrence was 41.4% and 30.3% in mutant and wild-type patients. The 5-years survival rate was 54% and 71.2%. Multivariate analysis revealed that the new histological classification and the pathologic stage were independent predictors of both DFS and OS. EGFR mutation status had no prognostic implications.CONCLUSION: Low grade tumors according to IASLC/ATS/ERS histological classification and the pathologic stage IA tumors of resected stage I lung adenocarcinomas independently predict better DFS and OS. EGFR mutations were frequently seen in histologically low- and intermediate-grade tumors but not a prognostic factor. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aged#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Prognosis#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor'
b'Autophagy is a physiological process for the recycling and degradation of cellular materials. Forming the autophagosome from the phagophore, a cup-shaped double-membrane vesicle, is a critical step in autophagy. The origin of the cup shape of the phagophore is poorly understood. In yeast, fusion of a small number of Atg9-containing vesicles is considered a key step in autophagosome biogenesis, aided by Atg1 complexes (ULK1 in mammals) localized at the preautophagosomal structure (PAS). In particular, the S-shaped Atg17-Atg31-Atg29 subcomplex of Atg1 is critical for phagophore nucleation at the PAS. To study this process, we simulated membrane remodeling processes in the presence and absence of membrane associated Atg17. We show that at least three vesicles need to fuse to induce the phagophore shape, consistent with experimental observations. However, fusion alone is not sufficient. Interactions with 34-nm long, S-shaped Atg17 complexes are required to overcome a substantial kinetic barrier in the transition to the cup-shaped phagophore. Our finding rationalizes the recruitment of Atg17 complexes to the yeast PAS, and their unusual shape. In control simulations without Atg17, with weakly binding Atg17, or with straight instead of S-shaped Atg17, the membrane shape transition did not occur. We confirm the critical role of Atg17-membrane interactions experimentally by showing that mutations of putative membrane interaction sites result in reduction or loss of autophagic activity in yeast. Fusion of a small number of vesicles followed by Atg17-guided membrane shape-remodeling thus emerges as a viable route to phagophore formation. labels: #Autophagosomes#Autophagy#Autophagy-Related Proteins#Binding Sites#Cell Membrane#Computer Simulation#Membrane Fluidity#Membrane Fusion#Models, Chemical#Models, Molecular#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'In mammals, protein arginine methyltransferase 5, PRMT5, is the main type II enzyme responsible for the majority of symmetric dimethylarginine formation in polypeptides. Recent study reported that PRMT5 restricts Hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication through epigenetic repression of HBV DNA transcription and interference with encapsidation of pregenomic RNA. Here we demonstrate that PRMT5 interacts with the HBV core (HBc) protein and dimethylates arginine residues within the arginine-rich domain (ARD) of the carboxyl-terminus. ARD consists of four arginine rich subdomains, ARDI, ARDII, ARDIII and ARDIV. Mutation analysis of ARDs revealed that arginine methylation of HBc required the wild-type status of both ARDI and ARDII. Mass spectrometry analysis of HBc identified multiple potential ubiquitination, methylation and phosphorylation sites, out of which lysine K7 and arginines R150 (within ARDI) and R156 (outside ARDs) were shown to be modified by ubiquitination and methylation, respectively. The HBc symmetric dimethylation appeared to be linked to serine phosphorylation and nuclear import of HBc protein. Conversely, the monomethylated HBc retained in the cytoplasm. Thus, overexpression of PRMT5 led to increased nuclear accumulation of HBc, and vice versa, down-regulation of PRMT5 resulted in reduced levels of HBc in nuclei of transfected cells. In summary, we identified PRMT5 as a potent controller of HBc cell trafficking and function and described two novel types of HBc post-translational modifications (PTMs), arginine methylation and ubiquitination. labels: #Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Mass Spectrometry#Methylation#Phosphorylation#Protein-Arginine N-Methyltransferases#Subcellular Fractions#Ubiquitination#Virus Replication'
b"CNS-directed therapies for the treatment of leukemia can adversely affect the acquisition of new skills, such as reading/writing and math. Two years after the end of treatments, children show gross and fine motor skill delays that may persist even when patients are considered healed. The goal of the present study was to assess motor skills difficulties in pre-school children with leukemia one year after treatment. Particular attention has been paid to those patients who had undergone Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) and to the relationship between motor delays and age bands. Participants were 60 children (median age of 5; inter quartile range: 3.07-5.76), including 31 females and 29 males, 91.7% of them were affected by acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and 8.3% by acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Five children had undergone HCST. Parents were interviewed by Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS) on children's motor skills and filled in the Italian Temperament Questionnaire (QUIT). VABS's total scores were converted into equivalent mental age scores (EMA). A score difference of at least three months between current age and equivalent mental age was considered a developmental delay. Non-parametric analyses were run to understand if HSCT treatment and a specific age band influence children's motor skills. Significant delays were found in global motor skills (56.7%) as well as in fine and gross motor domains. Mann Whitney U tests showed that children with HSCT were reported to have lower gross motor mean ranks (U = 62; p = 0.004; Mean rank = 15.40) than peers without HSCT (Mean rank = 31.87) and lower mean rank values on motor temperament scale (U = 9; p = 0.003; HSCT Mean rank = 4.75 versus no HSCT Mean rank = 27.81). Kruskal Wallis' tests identified the high risk treatment showing that HSCT experience negatively impacted the motor skills and temperamental motor activity of pre-school children one year after the diagnosis of leukemia. labels: #Child, Preschool#Female#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Male#Motor Skills#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#Risk Factors"
b'There are two biological systems available for removing phosphorus from waste water, conventional phosphorus removal (CPR) and denitrifying phosphorus removal (DPR) systems, and each is characterized by the type of sludge used in the process. In this study, we compared the characteristics associated with the efficiency of carbon utilization between CPR and DPR sludge using acetate as a carbon source. For DPR sludge, the heat emitted during the phosphorus release and phosphorus uptake processes were 45.79 kJ/mol e- and 84.09 kJ/mol e-, respectively. These values were about 2 fold higher than the corresponding values obtained for CPR sludge, suggesting that much of the energy obtained from the carbon source was emitted as heat. Further study revealed a smaller microbial mass within the DPR sludge compared to CPR sludge, as shown by a lower sludge yield coefficient (0.05 gVSS/g COD versus 0.36 gVSS/g COD), a result that was due to the lower energy capturing efficiency of DPR sludge according to bioenergetic analysis. Although the efficiency of anoxic phosphorus removal was only 39% the efficiency of aerobic phosphorus removal, the consumption of carbon by DPR sludge was reduced by 27.8% compared to CPR sludge through the coupling of denitrification with dephosphatation. labels: #Aerobiosis#Bioreactors#Calorimetry#Carbon#Denitrification#Energy Metabolism#Phosphorus#Sewage#Thermodynamics'
b'We evaluate the ability of cryopreserved rabbit amniotic membrane (AM) transplantation to reduce postoperative inflammation and the extent of fibrosis following experimental strabismus surgery. Ten white rabbits underwent bilateral superior rectus (SR) muscle resection. In the left eye, the resected SR muscle was wrapped with cryopreserved rabbit AM. The right eye underwent SR resection only and served as a control. The eyes were enucleated 4 weeks after strabismus surgery. The degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration, the extent of fibrosis, and profile of the relative expression of inflammatory mediators in the SR muscle were evaluated and compared between the two groups by histological analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). There were statistically meaningful differences in the degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration and extent of fibrosis between the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM after SR resection and those underwent SR resection only. A significant decrease in the expression of inflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-12a, IL-12b, IL-17f, and tumor necrosis factor- alpha (TNF-\xce\xb1)], and a markedly increased expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines (transforming growth factor-beta-1(TGF\xce\xb2-1) and IL-10) were observed in the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM. In this study, we demonstrate that cryopreserved rabbit AM is effective in reducing postoperative inflammation and extent of fibrosis in a rabbit model of strabismus surgery. Our results imply that cryopreserved AM allograft has anti-inflammatory and anti-scarring properties that can prevent postoperative adhesions following strabismus surgery. labels: #Amnion#Animals#Cryopreservation#Cytokines#Fibrosis#Inflammation#Inflammation Mediators#Rabbits#Strabismus'
b'OBJECTIVE: Available reports on critically ill adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) suggest improving short-term outcomes. However, there is marked heterogeneity in reported findings, with studies mostly based on single-centered data, limiting generalizability. We sought to examine population-level patterns of demand for critical care resources, and the characteristics, resource utilization, and outcomes of ICU-managed adults with CF.METHODS: We used the Texas Inpatient Public Use Data File to identify ICU admissions with CF aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years in Texas between 2004-2013. We examined ICU utilization at population level (using CF Foundation annual reports) and, among ICU admissions, socio-demographic characteristics, burden of comorbidities, organ failure, life-support utilization and hospital disposition. Linear regression and multilevel logistic regression were used to examine temporal trends and predictors of short-term mortality (hospital death and discharge to hospice), respectively.RESULTS: Of 9,579 hospitalizations of adults with CF, 1,249 (13%) were admitted to ICU. The incidence of ICU admission among adults with CF in Texas increased between 2004-2005 and 2012-2013 from 16.7 to 19.2 per 100 person-years (p = 0.0181), with ICU admissions aged \xe2\x89\xa530 years accounting for 80.3% of the change. Among ICU admissions the following changes were noted between 2004-2005 and 2012-2013: any organ failure 30.2% vs. 56.3% (p = 0.0004), mechanical ventilation 11.5% vs. 19.2% (p = 0.0216), and hemodialysis 1.0% vs. 8.1% (p = 0.0007). Short-term mortality for the whole cohort and for those with mechanical ventilation was 11.4% and 41.8%, respectively, with corresponding home discharge among survivors 84% and 62.1%, respectively. Key predictors (adjusted odds ratios [aOR (95% CI)]) of short-term mortality included age \xe2\x89\xa545 years (2.051 [1.231-3.415]), female gender (1.907 [1.237-2.941]), and mechanical ventilation (7.982 [5.001-12.739]).CONCLUSIONS: Adults with CF had high and rising population-level burden of critical illness. Although ICU admissions were increasingly older and sicker, the majority survived hospitalization, with most discharged home, supporting short-term benefits of critical care in the present cohort. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Critical Illness#Cystic Fibrosis#Female#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Young Adult'
b'Clubroot caused by Plasmodiophora brassicae, is a severe disease of cruciferous crops that causes large hypertrophic galls in the roots. The plant microbiome is important for growth promotion and disease suppression. In this study, using 16S rRNA and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequencing techniques, we compared the endosphere microbiome of symptomatic and asymptomatic B. napus roots infected with P. brassicae collected from the same natural clubroot field. The results showed that the microbial population and its relative abundance in the asymptomatic roots was far higher than that in the symptomatic roots, and that many microorganisms in asymptomatic roots have biological control and plant growth promotion functions that may be related to clubroot symptoms. These results suggest the importance of the endosphere microbiome in clubroot disease and provide potential bio-control resources for its prevention. labels: #Brassica napus#Cercozoa#Cluster Analysis#Microbiota#Plant Roots#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'Drosophila Wingless (Wg) is a morphogen that determines cell fate during development. Previous studies have shown that endocytic pathways regulate Wg trafficking and signaling. Here, we showed that loss of vamp7, a gene required for vesicle fusion, dramatically increased Wg levels and decreased Wg signaling. Interestingly, we found that levels of Dally-like (Dlp), a glypican that can interact with Wg to suppress Wg signaling at the dorsoventral boundary of the Drosophila wing, were also increased in vamp7 mutant cells. Moreover, Wg puncta in Rab4-dependent recycling endosomes were Dlp positive. We hypothesize that VAMP7 is required for Wg intracellular trafficking and the accumulation of Wg in Rab4-dependent recycling endosomes might affect Wg signaling. labels: #Animals#Biological Transport#Drosophila#Drosophila Proteins#R-SNARE Proteins#Signal Transduction#Wnt1 Protein'
b"BACKGROUND: People with stroke have a low peak aerobic capacity and experience increased effort during performance of daily activities. The purpose of this study was to examine test-retest reliability of a portable ergospirometry system in people with stroke during performance of functional activities in a field-test. Secondary aims were to examine the proportion of oxygen consumed during the field-test in relation to the peak-test and to analyse the correlation between the oxygen uptake during the field-test and peak-test in order to support the validity of the field-test.METHODS: With simultaneous measurement of oxygen consumption, participants performed a standardized field-test consisting of five activities; walking over ground, stair walking, stepping over obstacles, walking slalom between cones and from a standing position lifting objects from one height to another. All activities were performed in self-selected speed. Prior to the field-test, a peak aerobic capacity test was performed. The field-test was repeated minimum 2 and maximum 14 days between the tests. ICC2,1 and Bland Altman tests (Limits of Agreement, LoA) were used to analyse test-retest reliability.RESULTS: In total 31 participants (39% women, mean (SD) age 54.5 (12.7) years and 21.1 (14.3) months' post-stroke) were included. The ICC2,1 was \xe2\x89\xa5 0.80 for absolute V\xcc\x87O2, relative V\xcc\x87O2, minute ventilation, CO2, respiratory exchange ratio, heart rate and Borgs rating of perceived exertion. ICC2,1 for total time to complete the field-test was 0.99. Mean difference in steady state V\xcc\x87O2 during Test 1 and Test 2 was -0.40 (2.12) The LoAs were -3.75 and 4.51. Participants spent 60.7% of their V\xcc\x87O2peak performing functional activities. Correlation between field-test and peak-test was 0.689, p = 0.001 for absolute and 0.733, p = 0.001 for relative V\xcc\x87O2.CONCLUSIONS: This study presents first evidence on reliability of oxygen uptake during performance of functional activities after stroke, showing very good test-retest reliability. The secondary analysis showed that the amount of energy spent during the field-test relative to the peak-test was high and the correlation between the two test was good, supporting the validity of this method. labels: #Adult#Cognition#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Postural Balance#Spirometry#Stroke"
b'The giant mud crab Scylla serrata provides an important source of income and food to coastal communities in East Africa. However, increasing demand and exploitation due to the growing coastal population, export trade, and tourism industry are threatening the sustainability of the wild stock of this species. Because effective management requires a clear understanding of the connectivity among populations, this study was conducted to assess the genetic diversity and connectivity in the East African mangrove crab S. serrata. A section of 535 base pairs of the cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) gene and eight microsatellite loci were analysed from 230 tissue samples of giant mud crabs collected from Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Madagascar, and South Africa. Microsatellite genetic diversity (He) ranged between 0.56 and 0.6. The COI sequences showed 57 different haplotypes associated with low nucleotide diversity (current nucleotide diversity = 0.29%). In addition, the current nucleotide diversity was lower than the historical nucleotide diversity, indicating overexploitation or historical bottlenecks in the recent history of the studied population. Considering that the coastal population is growing rapidly, East African countries should promote sustainable fishing practices and sustainable use of mangrove resources to protect mud crabs and other marine fauna from the increasing pressure of exploitation. While microsatellite loci did not show significant genetic differentiation (p>0.05), COI sequences revealed significant genetic divergence between sites on the East coast of Madagascar (ECM) and sites on the West coast of Madagascar, mainland East Africa, as well as the Seychelles. Since East African countries agreed to achieve the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) target to protect over 10% of their marine areas by 2020, the observed pattern of connectivity and the measured genetic diversity can serve to provide useful information for designing networks of marine protected areas. labels: #Africa, Eastern#Animals#Conservation of Natural Resources#Crustacea#Fisheries#Genetic Variation#Microsatellite Repeats#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a highly debilitating disease of unknown aetiology. Abnormalities in bioenergetic function have been cited as one possible cause for CFS. Preliminary studies were performed to investigate cellular bioenergetic abnormalities in CFS patients. A series of assays were conducted using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from CFS patients and healthy controls. These experiments investigated cellular patterns in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and glycolysis. Results showed consistently lower measures of OXPHOS parameters in PBMCs taken from CFS patients compared with healthy controls. Seven key parameters of OXPHOS were calculated: basal respiration, ATP production, proton leak, maximal respiration, reserve capacity, non-mitochondrial respiration, and coupling efficiency. While many of the parameters differed between the CFS and control cohorts, maximal respiration was determined to be the key parameter in mitochondrial function to differ between CFS and control PBMCs due to the consistency of its impairment in CFS patients found throughout the study (p\xe2\x89\xa40.003). The lower maximal respiration in CFS PBMCs suggests that when the cells experience physiological stress they are less able to elevate their respiration rate to compensate for the increase in stress and are unable to fulfil cellular energy demands. The metabolic differences discovered highlight the inability of CFS patient PBMCs to fulfil cellular energetic demands both under basal conditions and when mitochondria are stressed during periods of high metabolic demand. labels: #Adult#Energy Metabolism#Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic#Female#Glucose#Glycolysis#Humans#Leukocytes, Mononuclear#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidative Phosphorylation'
b'Disinfectants play an important role in controlling microbial contamination on hard surfaces in hospitals. The effectiveness of disinfectants in real life can be predicted by laboratory tests that measure killing of microbes on carriers. The modified Quantitative Disk Carrier Test (QCT-2) is a standard laboratory method that employs American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) Type 430 stainless steel carriers to measure hospital disinfectant efficacy against Clostridium difficile spores. The formation of a rust-colored precipitate was observed on Type 430 carriers when testing a peracetic acid (PAA)-based disinfectant with the QCT-2 method. It was hypothesized that the precipitate was indicative of corrosion of the Type 430 carrier, and that corrosion could impact efficacy results. The objective of this study was to compare the suitability of AISI Type 430 to Type 304 stainless steel carriers for evaluating PAA-based disinfectants using the QCT-2 method. Type 304 is more corrosion-resistant than Type 430, is ubiquitous in healthcare environments, and is used in other standard methods. Suitability of the carriers was evaluated by comparing their impacts on efficacy results and PAA degradation rates. In efficacy tests with 1376 ppm PAA, reductions of C. difficile spores after 5, 7 and 10 minutes on Type 430 carriers were at least about 1.5 log10 lower than reductions on Type 304 carriers. In conditions simulating a QCT-2 test, PAA concentration with Type 430 carriers was reduced by approximately 80% in 10 minutes, whereas PAA concentration in the presence of Type 304 carriers remained stable. Elemental analyses of residues on each carrier type after efficacy testing were indicative of corrosion on the Type 430 carrier. Use of Type 430 stainless steel carriers for measuring the efficacy of PAA-based disinfectants should be avoided as it can lead to an underestimation of real life sporicidal efficacy. Type 304 stainless steel carriers are recommended as a suitable alternative. labels: #Clostridium difficile#Disinfectants#Peracetic Acid#Spores, Bacterial#Stainless Steel#Surface Properties'
b'Baseline information on demographics and practices on semi-intensive free-range egg farms with an outdoor stocking density of \xe2\x89\xa41500 hens/hectare in Australia is presented. Free-range egg production is changing the structure of the egg industry in Australia and a broad variety and tiers of free-range systems have emerged due to lack of concrete legislative standards on outdoor stocking densities in the past. Information was extracted from a pre-existing online free-range poultry survey dataset, consisting of a total of 79 questions related to nutrition, pasture management, welfare and health, animal housing, environmental impact and economics. Forty-one free-range egg farms, with an outdoor stocking density of \xe2\x89\xa41500 hens/hectare, were identified in the dataset from all major Australian states. Two types of semi-intensive free-range housing systems were documented: mobile (modified caravan/trailer) housing (56%), and fixed sheds (44%). Seventy-two percent of respondents reported>75% of the hens in the flock used the outdoor range. All respondents reported ingestion of range components by hens in the form of vegetation, insects, stones and grit. Up to 10% mortality was reported by 40% respondents with predation (34%), cannibalism (29%), heat stress (24%) and grass impaction (19.5%) as major causes. Biosecurity on farms was sub-optimal with 8 of the 10 actions implemented by<50% respondents. Customer demand, consumer sentiment and welfare were the major factors for farmers moving into free-range egg production. This study resulted in identification of current practices and key challenges on semi-intensive free-range egg farms. Applied research and communication of results to farmers is highly recommended to ensure optimum health and welfare of free-range laying hens and sustained egg production. labels: #Animal Feed#Animal Welfare#Animals#Australia#Chickens#Housing, Animal'
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigated the effect and mechanism of zinc-finger protein 418 (ZNF418) on cardiac hypertrophy caused by aortic banding (AB), phenylephrine (PE) or angiotensin II (Ang II) in vivo and in vitro.METHODS: The expression of ZNF418 in hearts of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice, as well as in Ang II- or PE-induced hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes was detected by western blotting. Then, the expression of ZNF418 was up-regulated or down-regulated in AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice and Ang II -induced hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes. The hypertrophic responses and fibrosis were evaluated by echocardiography and histological analysis. The mRNA levels of hypertrophy markers and fibrotic markers were detected by RT-qPCR. Furthermore, the phosphorylation and total levels of c-Jun were measured by western blotting.RESULTS: ZNF418 was markedly down-regulated in hearts of cardiac hypertrophy and hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes. Down-regulated ZNF418 exacerbated the myocyte size and fibrosis, moreover increased the mRNA levels of ANP, BNP, \xce\xb2-MHC, MCIP1.4, collagen 1a, collagen III, MMP-2 and fibronection in hearts of AB-treated ZNF418 knockout mice or Ang II-treated cardiomyocytes with AdshZNF418. Conversely, these hypertrophic responses were reduced in the ZNF418 transgenic (TG) mice treated by AB and the AdZNF418-transfected primary cardiomyocytes treated by Ang II. Additionally, the deficiency of ZNF418 enhanced the phosphorylation level of c-jun, and overexpression of ZNF418 suppressed the phosphorylation level of c-jun in vivo and in vitro.CONCLUSION: ZNF418 maybe attenuate hypertrophic responses by inhibiting the activity of c-jun/AP-1. labels: #Angiotensin II#Animals#Cardiomegaly#Cells, Cultured#Down-Regulation#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Repressor Proteins#Transcription Factor AP-1'
b'Silicon (Si) is a macroelement in plants. The biological effects and mitigation mechanisms of silicon under environmental stress have become hot topics. The main objectives of this study were to elucidate the roles of Si in alleviating the effects on the phenotype, micromorphology and anatomy of the leaves of rice seedlings under acid rain stress. The results indicated that the combined or single effects of Si and simulated acid rain (SAR) stress on rice roots depended on the concentration of Si and the intensity of the SAR stress. The combined or single effects of the moderate concentration of Si (2.0 mM) and light SAR (pH 4.0) enhanced the growth of the rice leaves and the development of the mesophyll cells, and the combined effects were stronger than those of the single treatments. The high concentration of Si (4.0 mM) and severe SAR (pH 3.0 or 2.0) exerted deleterious effects. The incorporation of Si (2.0 or 4.0 mM) into SAR at pH values of 3.0 or 2.0 promoted rice leaf growth, decreased necrosis spots, maintained the structure and function of the mesophyll cells, increased the epicuticular wax content and wart-like protuberance (WP) density, and improved the stomatal characteristics of the leaves of rice seedlings more than the SAR only treatments. The alleviatory effects observed with a moderate concentration of Si (2.0 mM) were better than the effects obtained with the high concentration of Si (4.0 mM). The alleviatory effects were due to the enhancement of the mechanical barriers in the leaf epidermis. labels: #Acid Rain#Mesophyll Cells#Oryza#Plant Leaves#Silicon'
b'BACKGROUND: The antiretroviral drug nevirapine and the antimalarial artemisinin-based combination therapy artemether-lumefantrine are commonly co-administered to treat malaria in the context of HIV. Nevirapine is a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, which metabolizes artemether and lumefantrine. To address the concern that the antiretroviral nevirapine impacts the antimalarial artemether-lumefantrine pharmacokinetics, a prospective non-randomized controlled study in children presenting with uncomplicated malaria and HIV in sub-Saharan Africa was carried out.METHODS: Participants received artemether-lumefantrine (20/120 mg weight-based BID) for 3 days during nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) co-administration (158-266 mg/m2 QD). HIV positive participants who were not yet on ART drugs were also enrolled as the control group. The target enrollment was children aged 3-12 years (n = 24 in each group). Intensive pharmacokinetics after the last artemether-lumefantrine dose was assessed for artemether, its active metabolite dihydroartemisinin, and lumefantrine. Pharmacokinetic parameters (area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve (AUC), maximum concentration and day 7 lumefantrine concentrations) were estimated using non-compartmental methods and compared to controls.RESULTS: Nineteen children (16 on nevirapine and three not on ART) enrolled. Fifteen of the 16 (aged 4 to 11 years) on nevirapine-based ART were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis. Due to evolving WHO HIV treatment guidelines, insufficient children were enrolled in the control group (n = 3), so the pharmacokinetic data were compared to a historical control group of 20 HIV-uninfected children 5-12 years of age who also presented with malaria and underwent identical study procedures. Decreases of pharmacokinetic exposure [as estimated by AUC (AUC0-8hr)] were marginally significant for artemether (by -46%, p = 0.08) and dihydroartemisinin (-22%, p = 0.06) in the children on nevirapine-based ART, compared to when artemether-lumefantrine was administered alone. Similarly, peak concentration was decreased by 50% (p = 0.07) for artemether and 36% (p = 0.01) for dihydroartemisinin. In contrast, exposure to lumefantrine increased significantly in the context of nevirapine [AUC0-120hr:123% (p<0.001); Cday7:116% (p<0.001), Cmax: 95% (p<0.001)].CONCLUSIONS: Nevirapine-based ART increases the exposure to lumefantrine in pre-pubescent children with a trend toward diminished artemether and dihydroartemisinin exposure. These findings contrast with other studies indicating NVP reduces or results in no change in exposure of antimalarial drugs, and may be specific to this age group (4-12 years). Considering the excellent safety profile of artemether-lumefantrine, the increase in lumefantrine is not of concern. However, the reduction in artemisinin exposure may warrant further study, and suggests that dosage adjustment of artemether-lumefantrine with nevirapine-based ART in children is likely warranted. labels: #Africa South of the Sahara#Antimalarials#Artemisinins#Child#Child, Preschool#Ethanolamines#Female#Fluorenes#Humans#Male#Nevirapine'
b'The model of population growth is revised in this paper. A new model is proposed based on the concept of fractional differentiation that uses the generalized Mittag-Leffler function as kernel of differentiation. The new model includes the choice of sexuality. The existence of unique solution is investigated and numerical solution is provided. labels: #Animals#Female#Humans#Male#Models, Theoretical#Population Growth#Sexuality'
b'Lipid lowering properties of glucagon have been reported. Blocking glucagon signaling leads to rise in plasma LDL levels. Here, we demonstrate the lipid lowering effects of acute dosing with Glp1r/Gcgr dual agonist (DualAG). All the experiments were performed in 25 week-old male diet-induced (60% kCal fat) obese mice. After 2 hrs of fasting, mice were injected subcutaneously with vehicle, liraglutide (25nmol/kg) and DualAG (25nmol/kg). De novo cholesterol and palmitate synthesis was measured by deuterium incorporation method using D2O. 13C18-oleate infusion was used for measuring fatty acid esterification. Simultaneous activation of Glp1r and Gcgr resulted in decrease in plasma triglyceride and cholesterol levels. DualAG enhanced hepatic LDLr protein levels, along with causing decrease in content of plasma ApoB48 and ApoB100. VLDL secretion, de novo palmitate synthesis and fatty acid esterification decreased with acute DualAG treatment. On the other hand, ketone levels were elevated with DualAG treatment, indicating increased fatty acid oxidation. Lipid relevant changes were absent in liraglutide treated group. In an acute treatment, DualAG demonstrated significant impact on lipid homeostasis, specifically on hepatic uptake, VLDL secretion and de novo synthesis. These effects collectively reveal that lipid lowering abilities of DualAG are primarily through glucagon signaling and are liver centric. labels: #Animals#Cholesterol#Glucagon#Glucagon-Like Peptide Receptors#Lipid Metabolism#Lipogenesis#Liver#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Triglycerides'
b'The identification and study of antigen-specific CD4 T cells, both in peripheral blood and in tissues, is key for a broad range of immunological research, including vaccine responses and infectious diseases. Detection of these cells is hampered by both their rarity and their heterogeneity, in particular with regards to cytokine secretion profiles. These factors prevent the identification of the total pool of antigen-specific CD4 T cells by classical methods. We have developed assays for the highly sensitive detection of such cells by measuring the upregulation of surface activation induced markers (AIM). Here, we compare two such assays based on concurrent expression of CD69 plus CD40L (CD154) or expression of OX40 plus CD25, and we develop additional AIM assays based on OX40 plus PD-L1 or 4-1BB. We compare the relative sensitivity of these assays for detection of vaccine and natural infection-induced CD4 T cell responses and show that these assays identify distinct, but overlapping populations of antigen-specific CD4 T cells, a subpopulation of which can also be detected on the basis of cytokine synthesis. Bystander activation had minimal effect on AIM markers. However, some T regulatory cells upregulate CD25 upon antigen stimulation. We therefore validated AIM assays designed to exclude most T regulatory cells, for both human and non-human primate (NHP, Macaca mulatta) studies. Overall, through head-to-head comparisons and methodological improvements, we show that AIM assays represent a sensitive and valuable method for the detection of antigen-specific CD4 T cells. labels: #Animals#Antigens#Antigens, CD#Biomarkers#Bystander Effect#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cohort Studies#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Macaca mulatta'
b'Pigs have experienced long-term selections, resulting in dramatic phenotypic changes. Structural variants (SVs) are reported to exert extensive impacts on phenotypic changes. We built a high resolution and informative SV map based on high-depth sequencing data from 66 Chinese domestic and wild pigs. We inferred the SV formation mechanisms in the pig genome and used SVs as materials to perform a population-level analysis. We detected the selection signals on chromosome X for northern Chinese domestic pigs, as well as the differentiated loci across the whole genome. Analysis showed that these loci differ between southern and northern Chinese domestic pigs. Our results based on SVs provide new insights into genetic differences in Chinese pigs. labels: #Animals#China#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Selection, Genetic#Sus scrofa#Swine#X Chromosome'
b'AIM: Metastasis of tumor cells occurs through lymphatic vessels, blood vessels and transcoelomic spreading. Growing evidence from in vivo and in vitro studies has indicated that tumor lymphangiogenesis facilitates metastasis. However, the regulation of lymphangiogenesis in colon cancer remains unclear. The aims of this study were to identify key miRNAs in colon cancer lymphangiogenesis and to investigate its target and mechanism.METHODS: miRNA microarray analysis was conducted to identify miRNAs in human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs) that were regulated by co-cultured human colon cancer cells. Gain- and loss-of-function studies were performed to determine the function of miR-27a, a top hint, on lymphangiogenesis and migration in HLECs. Furthermore, bioinformatics prediction and experimental validation were performed to identify miR-27a target genes in lymphangiogenesis.RESULTS: We found that expression of miR-27a in HLECs was induced by co-culturing with colon cancer cells. Over-expression of miR-27a in HLECs enhanced lymphatic tube formation and migration, whereas inhibition of miR-27a reduced lymphatic tube formation and migration. Luciferase reporter assays showed that miR-27a directly targeted SMAD4, a pivotal component of the TGF-\xce\xb2 pathway. In addition, gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments showed that SMAD4 negatively regulated the length of lymphatic vessels formed by HLECs and migration.CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicated that colon cancer cell induced the expression of miR-27a in HLECs, which promoted lymphangiogenesis by targeting SMAD4. Our finding implicated miR-27a as a potential target for new anticancer therapies in colon cancer. labels: #Cells, Cultured#Coculture Techniques#Colonic Neoplasms#Humans#Lymphangiogenesis#Lymphatic Vessels#MicroRNAs#Signal Transduction#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b'Osteocytes are the most abundant cell in the bone, and have multiple functions including mechanosensing and regulation of bone remodeling activities. Since osteocytes are embedded in the bone matrix, their inaccessibility makes in vivo studies problematic. Therefore, a non-invasive technique with high spatial resolution is desired. The purpose of this study is to investigate the use of third harmonic generation (THG) microscopy as a noninvasive technique for high-resolution imaging of the lacunar-canalicular network (LCN) in live mice. By performing THG imaging in combination with two- and three-photon fluorescence microscopy, we show that THG signal is produced from the bone-interstitial fluid boundary of the lacuna, while the interstitial fluid-osteocyte cell boundary shows a weaker THG signal. Canaliculi are also readily visualized by THG imaging, with canaliculi oriented at small angles relative to the optical axis exhibiting stronger signal intensity compared to those oriented perpendicular to the optical axis (parallel to the image plane). By measuring forward- versus epi-detected THG signals in thinned versus thick bone samples ex vivo, we found that the epi-collected THG from the LCN of intact bone contains a superposition of backward-directed and backscattered forward-THG. As an example of a biological application, THG was used as a label-free imaging technique to study structural variations in the LCN of live mice deficient in both histone deacetylase 4 and 5 (HDAC4, HDAC5). Three-dimensional analyses were performed and revealed statistically significant differences between the HDAC4/5 double knockout and wild type mice in the number of osteocytes per volume and the number of canaliculi per lacunar surface area. These changes in osteocyte density and dendritic projections occurred without differences in lacunar size. This study demonstrates that THG microscopy imaging of the LCN in live mice enables quantitative analysis of osteocytes in animal models without the use of dyes or physical sectioning. labels: #Animals#Histone Deacetylases#Intravital Microscopy#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Osteocytes#Skull'
b"Parental investment in Arapaima gigas includes nest building and guarding, followed by a care provision when a cephalic fluid is released from the parents' head to the offspring. This fluid has presumably important functions for the offspring but so far its composition has not been characterised. In this study the proteome and peptidome of the cephalic secretion was studied in parental and non-parental fish using capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry (CE-MS) and GeLC-MS/MS analyses. Multiple comparisons revealed 28 peptides were significantly different between males and parental males (PC-males), 126 between females and parental females (PC-females), 51 between males and females and 9 between PC-males and PC-females. Identification revealed peptides were produced in the inner ear (pcdh15b), eyes (tetraspanin and ppp2r3a), central nervous system (otud4, ribeye a, tjp1b and syn1) among others. A total of 422 proteins were also identified and gene ontology analysis revealed 28 secreted extracellular proteins. From these, 2 hormones (prolactin and stanniocalcin) and 12 proteins associated to immunological processes (serotransferrin, \xce\xb1-1-antitrypsin homolog, apolipoprotein A-I, and others) were identified. This study provides novel biochemical data on the lateral line fluid which will enable future hypotheses-driven experiments to better understand the physiological roles of the lateral line in chemical communication. labels: #Animals#Behavior, Animal#Chromatography, Liquid#Electrophoresis, Capillary#Female#Fishes#Male#Peptides#Proteome#Tandem Mass Spectrometry"
b'BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in Western countries. Both iron and lipid metabolism seem to be involved in its pathogenesis. We aimed to assess the relationship between levels of hepcidin, the master iron-regulatory protein, in plasma and the presence of NAFLD in morbidly obese (MO) patients, and to investigate the association between the hepatic expression of the main iron and lipid metabolism -related genes.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to measure plasma hepcidin levels in 49 normal-weight control women, 23 MO women with normal liver (NL) histology and 46 MO women with NAFLD. The mRNA expression of hepcidin, the main iron metabolism-related genes, and the main lipid-metabolism genes was quantified by qRT-PCR in liver biopsies from members of the MO group undergoing bariatric surgery.RESULTS: Circulating hepcidin levels were significantly greater in MO than in normal-weight control women. However, there were no significant differences between MO women with NL and those with NAFLD. PCR analysis showed increased expression of hepcidin, FPN1, TfR1 and TfR2 in the liver of MO NAFLD women compared to those with NL. Moreover, a positive association of hepatic hepcidin mRNA expression and the iron metabolism-related genes was found with some key genes involved in the lipid metabolism.CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that circulating hepcidin levels are associated with obesity but not with the presence of NAFLD. However, the hepatic expression of hepcidin and the iron metabolism-related genes seem to play a role in regulating lipid metabolism pathways in liver, which has implications for NAFLD pathogenesis. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Hepcidins#Humans#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Obesity, Morbid'
b'Chloroplast (cp) genomes of Lilium amabile, L. callosum, L. lancifolium, and L. philadelphicum were fully sequenced. Using these four novel cp genome sequences and five other previously sequenced cp genomes, features of the cp genomes were characterized in detail among species in the genus Lilium and other related genera in the order Liliales. The lengths and nucleotide composition showed little variation. No structural variation was found among the cp genomes in Liliales. Gene contents were conserved among four newly sequenced cp genome in Lilium species, the only differences being in two pseudogenes. We identified 112 genes in 13 functional categories, 18 of which carried introns that were conserved among the species in Liliales. There were 16-21 SSR loci (>12 bp,>3 repeats) in the cp genomes in Lilium and the genomic locations of these loci were highly variable among the species. Average mutations were 15 SNPs per 1kb and 5 indels per 1kb, respectively, in the cp genomes of the newly sequenced four Lilium species. Phylogenetic classifications revealed some discrepancies between trees based on the cp genomes and previous classifications based on the morphology and geographic distributions. labels: #Chloroplasts#Genome, Plant#INDEL Mutation#Introns#Lilium#Phylogeny#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Species Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: The emerging chikungunya virus (CHIKV), is an arbovirus causing intense outbreaks in North America. The situation in Mexico is alarming, and CHIKV threatens to spread further throughout North America. Clinical and biological features of CHIKF outbreaks in Mexico have not been well described; thus, we conducted a cross sectional study of a CHIKV outbreak in Chiapas, Southern Mexico to further characterize these features.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We collected blood samples from patients suspected of having chikungunya fever (CHIKF) who presented to Clinical Hospital ISSSTE Dr. Roberto Nettel in Tapachula, Chiapas, Mexico. In addition to the clinical examination, real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) standardized for the Asian Chikungunya lineage and/or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin M (IgM) were used to confirm CHIKV diagnosis. Of a total of 850 patients who presented with probably CHIKV at Hospital "Dr. Roberto Nettel", 112 probable CHIKF cases were enrolled in this study from November 2014- June 2015, of which 95 patients (84.8%) were CHIKV positive and 17 were negative (15.2%). Of these 95 CHIKV positive patients, 62 were positive by real-time reverse transcriptase PCR (+qRT-PCR); and 33 were seropositive to +IgM with a negative qRT-PCR. The most frequent symptoms reported were fever (100%), headache (82.3%), polyarthralgia (72.1%), and exanthem (82.3%). Biological abnormalities observed during CHIKV infection were lymphopenia (41.1%), leukopenia (51.6%), elevated transaminases (30.5%-46.3%) and high LDH (46.3%) and CRP (60.0%).CONCLUSION: Clinical and biological data obtained from this study is providing more useful information for benchmarking purposes with outbreaks from different parts of the world and would be helpful for better patient care and treatment. labels: #Chikungunya Fever#Cross-Sectional Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Humans#Mexico#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'The \xce\xbb-Red recombination system is a popular method for gene editing. However, its applications are limited due to restricted electroporation of DNA fragments. Here, we present an electroporation-free \xce\xbb-Red recombination method in which target DNA fragments are excised by I-CreI endonuclease in vivo from the landing pad plasmid. Subsequently, the I-SceI endonuclease-cutting chromosome and DNA double-strand break repair were required. Markerless deletion and genomic replacement were successfully accomplished by this novel approach. Eight nonessential regions of 2.4-104.4 kb in the Escherichia coli DH1 genome were deleted separately with selection efficiencies of 5.3-100%. Additionally, the recombination efficiencies were 2.5-45%, representing an order of magnitude improvement over the electroporation method. For example, for genomic replacement, lycopene expression flux (3.5 kb) was efficiently and precisely integrated into the chromosome, accompanied by replacement of nonessential regions separately into four differently oriented loci. The lycopene production level varied approximately by 5- and 10-fold, corresponding to the integrated position and expression direction, respectively, in the E. coli chromosome. labels: #Carotenoids#Chromosomes, Bacterial#Electroporation#Escherichia coli#Genome, Bacterial#Plasmids#Recombination, Genetic#Sequence Deletion'
b"Corbicula fluminea is an aggressive invasive species of bivalve that arrived into the R\xc3\xado de la Plata River between the late 60's and early 70's, and dispersed widely throughout the Neotropical region, evidencing a great adaptive flexibility to different environmental conditions. This species is a functional hermaphrodite with larval incubation inside the inner demibranch. Despite its widespread distribution, there are no previous studies of complete gonadal histology and reproductive cycle for this species in the Neotropical region. In this study, the reproductive dynamics of C. fluminea in a temperate region, the Santa Catalina Pampean stream, Argentina, is described. Samples of 20-30 individuals were collected monthly from April 2003-April 2005 and processed using traditional histological techniques. During the two years of this study, seven spawning events were recognized. Three major spawns occurred in spring and summer, and other four minor ones during summer and autumn. Events of oocyte recovery were observed after spawning. A high number of incubating individuals was detected. The results stressed the difficulty of identifying a particular pattern of gamete release and of spawning behaviour in this invasive species, especially when inhabiting an unstable environment. labels: #Animals#Argentina#Corbicula#Environmental Monitoring#Gonads#Introduced Species#Rivers#Seasons"
b"Response inhibition is frequently measured by the Go/no-go and Stop-signal tasks. These two are often used indiscriminately under the assumption that both measure similar inhibitory control abilities. However, accumulating evidence show differences in both tasks' modulations, raising the question of whether they tap into equivalent cognitive mechanisms. In the current study, a comparison of the performance in both tasks took place under the influence of negative stimuli, following the assumption that ''controlled inhibition'', as measured by Stop-signal, but not ''automatic inhibition'', as measured by Go/no-go, will be affected. 54 young adults performed a task in which negative pictures, neutral pictures or no-pictures preceded go trials, no-go trials, and stop-trials. While the exposure to negative pictures impaired performance on go trials and improved the inhibitory capacity in Stop-signal task, the inhibitory performance in Go/no-go task was generally unaffected. The results support the conceptualization of different mechanisms operated by both tasks, thus emphasizing the necessity to thoroughly fathom both inhibitory processes and identify their corresponding cognitive measures. Implications regarding the usage of cognitive tasks for strengthening inhibitory capacity among individuals struggling with inhibitory impairments are discussed. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Inhibition (Psychology)#Male#Reaction Time#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult"
b'Leptospirosis is a globally emerging zoonotic disease, associated with various climatic, biotic and abiotic factors. Mapping and quantifying geographical variations in the occurrence of leptospirosis and the surrounding environment offer innovative methods to study disease transmission and to identify associations between the disease and the environment. This study aims to investigate geographic variations in leptospirosis incidence in the Netherlands and to identify associations with environmental factors driving the emergence of the disease. Individual case data derived over the period 1995-2012 in the Netherlands were geocoded and aggregated by municipality. Environmental covariate data were extracted for each municipality and stored in a spatial database. Spatial clusters were identified using kernel density estimations and quantified using local autocorrelation statistics. Associations between the incidence of leptospirosis and the local environment were determined using Simultaneous Autoregressive Models (SAR) explicitly modelling spatial dependence of the model residuals. Leptospirosis incidence rates were found to be spatially clustered, showing a marked spatial pattern. Fitting a spatial autoregressive model significantly improved model fit and revealed significant association between leptospirosis and the coverage of arable land, built up area, grassland and sabulous clay soils. The incidence of leptospirosis in the Netherlands could effectively be modelled using a combination of soil and land-use variables accounting for spatial dependence of incidence rates per municipality. The resulting spatially explicit risk predictions provide an important source of information which will benefit clinical awareness on potential leptospirosis infections in endemic areas. labels: #Cluster Analysis#Environment#Geography#Humans#Incidence#Leptospirosis#Netherlands#Risk Factors'
b'Energy and time expenditures are determinants of bird migration strategies. Soaring birds have developed migration strategies to minimize these costs, optimizing the use of all the available resources to facilitate their displacement. We analysed the effects of different wind factors (tailwind, turbulence, vertical updrafts) on the migratory flying strategies adopted by 24 satellite-tracked American white pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) throughout spring and autumn in North America. We hypothesize that different wind conditions encountered along migration routes between spring and autumn induce pelicans to adopt different flying strategies and use of these wind resources. Using quantile regression and fine-scale atmospheric data, we found that the pelicans optimized the use of available wind resources, flying faster and more direct routes in spring than in autumn. They actively selected tailwinds in both spring and autumn displacements but relied on available updrafts predominantly in their spring migration, when they needed to arrive at the breeding regions. These effects varied depending on the flying speed of the pelicans. We found significant directional correlations between the pelican migration flights and wind direction. In light of our results, we suggest plasticity of migratory flight strategies by pelicans is likely to enhance their ability to cope with the effects of ongoing climate change and the alteration of wind regimes. Here, we also demonstrate the usefulness and applicability of quantile regression techniques to investigate complex ecological processes such as variable effects of atmospheric conditions on soaring migration. labels: #Animal Migration#Animals#Birds#Flight, Animal#North America#Seasons#Wind'
b'The utility of HepG2 cells to assess drug metabolism and toxicity induced by chemical compounds is hampered by their low cytochrome P450 (CYP) activities. To overcome this limitation, we established HepG2 cell lines expressing major CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism (CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) and CYP oxidoreductase (POR) using the mammalian-derived artificial chromosome vector. Transchromosomic HepG2 (TC-HepG2) cells expressing four CYPs and POR were used to determine time- and concentration-dependent inhibition and toxicity of several compounds by luminescence detection of CYP-specific substrates and cell viability assays. Gene expression levels of all four CYPs and POR, as well as the CYP activities, were higher in TC-HepG2 clones than in parental HepG2 cells. Additionally, the activity levels of all CYPs were reduced in a concentration-dependent manner by specific CYP inhibitors. Furthermore, preincubation of TC-HepG2 cells with CYP inhibitors known as time-dependent inhibitors (TDI) prior to the addition of CYP-specific substrates determined that CYP inhibition was enhanced in the TDI group than in the non-TDI group. Finally, the IC50 of bioactivable compound aflatoxin B1 was lower in TC-HepG2 cells than in HepG2 cells. In conclusion, the TC-HepG2 cells characterized in the current study are a highly versatile model to evaluate drug-drug interactions and hepatotoxicity in initial screening of candidate drug compounds, which require a high degree of processing capacity and reliability. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Chromosomes, Artificial, Mammalian#Cytochrome P-450 Enzyme System#Enzyme Inhibitors#Humans#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Models, Biological'
b'Scleroderma has clinical characteristics including skin and other tissue fibrosis, but there is an unmet need for anti-fibrotic therapy. Halofuginone (HF) is a well-known anti-fibrosis agent in preclinical and clinical studies which exerts its effect via inhibition of TGF-\xce\xb2/Smad3 signaling pathway. Recently, prolyl-tRNA synthetase (PRS) was elucidated as a target protein for HF that binds to the proline binding site of the catalytic domain of PRS. Here, we characterized a new class of PRS inhibitor (T-3833261) that is carefully designed in a way that binds to the ATP site of the catalytic domain and does not disrupt binding of proline. The anti-fibrotic activity and the mechanism of action for T-3833261 on TGF-\xce\xb2-induced fibrotic assay were compared with those of HF in primary human skin fibroblast. We evaluated in vivo effect of topical application of T-3833261 and HF on TGF-\xce\xb2-induced fibrotic genes expression in mice. We found that T-3833261 suppressed TGF-\xce\xb2-induced \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1-SMA) and type I collagen \xce\xb11 (COL1A1) expression through the Smad3 axis in a similar fashion to HF. In vivo topical application of T-3833261 reduced the increase of fibrotic genes expression such as \xce\xb1-Sma, Col1a1 and Col1a2 by TGF-\xce\xb2 intradermal injection to the ear of a mouse. We revealed that T-3833261 is more effective than HF under the conditions of high proline concentration, as reported in fibrotic tissues. These results suggest the potential of ATP competitive PRS inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases such as scleroderma. labels: #Amino Acyl-tRNA Synthetases#Animals#Cells, Cultured#Drug Discovery#Enzyme Inhibitors#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C3H#Scleroderma, Systemic'
b'BACKGROUND: The evidence for association between Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection and risk of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is inconsistent in the literature. Therefore, this meta-analysis was conducted to clarify this association.METHODS: A literature search was conducted in electronic databases for English- and Chinese-language publications until March 31, 2017 to include eligible case-control studies. The pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were estimated to determine the association between EBV infection and OSCC risk using a fixed- or random-effects model based on heterogeneity. Publication bias was assessed using funnel plot analysis.RESULTS: A total of 13 case-control studies with 686 OSCC patients and 433 controls were included based on predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The pooled OR with 95% CI between EBV infection and OSCC risk was 5.03 (1.80-14.01) with significant heterogeneity observed (I2 = 87%). The subgroup analysis indicates that the year of publication, study location, economic level, sample size, tissue type, detection method and marker, control type, and language might explain potential sources of heterogeneity. Publication bias was not observed, and sensitivity analysis showed stable results.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current meta-analysis suggest that EBV infection is statistically associated with increased risk of OSCC. However, additional high-quality studies with larger sample sizes are needed to further confirm the relationship between EBV and OSCC. labels: #Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Case-Control Studies#Epstein-Barr Virus Infections#Humans#Mouth Neoplasms'
b'During interphase, the nuclear envelope (NE) serves as a selective barrier between cytosol and nucleoplasm. When vertebrate cells enter mitosis, the NE is dismantled in the process of nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD). Disassembly of nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) is a key aspect of NEBD, required for NE permeabilization and formation of a cytoplasmic mitotic spindle. Here, we show that both CDK1 and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) support mitotic NPC disintegration by hyperphosphorylation of Nup98, the gatekeeper nucleoporin, and Nup53, a central nucleoporin linking the inner NPC scaffold to the pore membrane. Multisite phosphorylation of Nup53 critically contributes to its liberation from its partner nucleoporins, including the pore membrane protein NDC1. Initial steps of NPC disassembly in semi-permeabilized cells can be reconstituted by a cocktail of mitotic kinases including cyclinB-CDK1, NIMA, and PLK1, suggesting that the unzipping of nucleoporin interactions by protein phosphorylation is an important principle underlying mitotic NE permeabilization. labels: #CDC2 Protein Kinase#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleus#Cyclin-Dependent Kinases#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mitosis#Nuclear Envelope#Nuclear Pore#Nuclear Pore Complex Proteins#Phosphorylation#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins'
b'In animal cells, nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD) is required for proper chromosome segregation. Whereas mitotic kinases have been implicated in NEBD, how they coordinate their activity to trigger this event is unclear. Here, we show that both in human cells and Caenorhabditis elegans, the Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK-1) is recruited to the nuclear pore complexes, just prior to NEBD, through its Polo-box domain (PBD). We provide evidence that PLK-1 localization to the nuclear envelope (NE) is required for efficient NEBD. We identify the central channel\xc2\xa0nucleoporins NPP-1/Nup58, NPP-4/Nup54, and NPP-11/Nup62 as the critical factors anchoring PLK-1 to the NE in C.\xc2\xa0elegans. In particular, NPP-1, NPP-4, and NPP-11 primed at multiple Polo-docking sites by Cdk1 and PLK-1 itself physically interact with the PLK-1 PBD. We conclude that nucleoporins play an unanticipated regulatory role in NEBD, by recruiting PLK-1 to the NE thereby facilitating phosphorylation of critical downstream targets. labels: #Animals#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleus#Embryo, Nonmammalian#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mitosis#Nuclear Envelope#Nuclear Pore#Nuclear Pore Complex Proteins#Phosphorylation#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins'
b'The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) in animals and yeast assures equal segregation of chromosomes during cell division. The prevalent occurrence of polyploidy in flowering plants together with the observation that many plants can be readily forced to double their genomes by application of microtubule drugs raises the question of whether plants have a proper SAC. Here, we provide a functional framework of the core SAC proteins in Arabidopsis. We reveal that Arabidopsis will delay mitosis in a SAC-dependent manner if the spindle is perturbed. However, we also show that the molecular architecture of the SAC is unique in plants. Moreover, the SAC is short-lived and cannot stay active for more than 2\xc2\xa0hr, after which the cell cycle is reset. This\xc2\xa0resetting opens the possibility for genome duplications and raises the hypothesis that a rapid termination of a SAC-induced mitotic arrest provides an\xc2\xa0adaptive advantage for plants impacting plant genome evolution. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Cell Cycle Proteins#Microtubules#Mitosis#Spindle Apparatus#Stress, Physiological'
b'Ribosome biogenesis regulates animal growth and is controlled by nutrient-responsive mTOR signaling. How ribosome biogenesis is regulated during the developmental growth of animals and how nutrient-responsive signaling adjusts ribosome biogenesis in this setting have remained insufficiently understood. We uncover PWP1 as a chromatin-associated regulator of developmental growth with a conserved role in RNA polymerase I (Pol I)-mediated rRNA transcription. We further observed that PWP1 epigenetically maintains the rDNA loci in a transcription-competent state. PWP1 responds to nutrition in Drosophila larvae via mTOR signaling through gene expression and phosphorylation, which controls the nucleolar localization of dPWP1. Our data further imply that dPWP1 acts synergistically with mTOR signaling to regulate the nucleolar localization of TFIIH, a known elongation factor of Pol I. Ribosome biogenesis is often deregulated in cancer, and we demonstrate that high PWP1 levels in human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma tumors are associated with poor prognosis. labels: #Animals#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleolus#Chromatin#DNA, Ribosomal#Drosophila#Food#Gene Expression Regulation#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Nuclear Proteins#Phosphorylation#Prognosis#RNA Polymerase I#RNA, Ribosomal#Ribosomes#Signal Transduction#Survival Rate#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transcription, Genetic'
b"BACKGROUND: Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) catabolises \xe2\x88\xbc85% of the administered dose of fluoropyrimidines. Functional DPYD gene variants cause reduced/abrogated DPD activity. DPYD variants analysis may help for defining individual patients' risk of fluoropyrimidine-related severe toxicity.METHODS: The TOSCA Italian randomised trial enrolled colon cancer patients for 3 or 6 months of either FOLFOX-4 or XELOX adjuvant chemotherapy. In an ancillary pharmacogenetic study, 10 DPYD variants (*2A rs3918290 G>A, *13 rs55886062 T>G, rs67376798 A>T, *4 rs1801158 G>A, *5 rs1801159 A>G, *6 rs1801160 G>A, *9A rs1801265 T>C, rs2297595 A>G, rs17376848 T>C, and rs75017182 C>G), were retrospectively tested for associations with \xe2\xa9\xbegrade 3 fluoropyrimidine-related adverse events (FAEs). An association analysis and a time-to-toxicity (TTT) analysis were planned. To adjust for multiple testing, the Benjamini and Hochberg's False Discovery Rate (FDR) procedure was used.RESULTS: FAEs occurred in 194 out of 508 assessable patients (38.2%). In the association analysis, FAEs occurred more frequently in *6 rs1801160 A allele carriers (FDR=0.0083). At multivariate TTT analysis, significant associations were found for *6 rs1801160 A allele carriers (FDR<0.0001), *2A rs3918290 A allele carriers (FDR<0.0001), and rs2297595 GG genotype carriers (FDR=0.0014). Neutropenia was the most common FAEs (28.5%). *6 rs1801160 (FDR<0.0001), and *2A rs3918290 (FDR=0.0004) variant alleles were significantly associated with time to neutropenia.CONCLUSIONS: This study adds evidence on the role of DPYD pharmacogenetics for safety of patients undergoing fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colonic Neoplasms#Dihydrouracil Dehydrogenase (NADP)#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Neutropenia#Pharmacogenetics#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate"
b'BACKGROUND: Tumour stroma has important roles in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis. We aimed to clarify the roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) and their target genes in CRC stroma in the development of liver metastasis.METHODS: Tumour stroma was isolated from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues of primary CRCs with or without liver metastasis by laser capture microdissection, and miRNA expression was analysed using TaqMan miRNA arrays.RESULTS: Hierarchical clustering classified 16 CRCs into two groups according to the existence of synchronous liver metastasis. Combinatory target prediction identified tenascin C as a predicted target of miR-198, one of the top 10 miRNAs downregulated in tumour stroma of CRCs with synchronous liver metastasis. Immunohistochemical analysis of tenascin C in 139 primary CRCs revealed that a high staining intensity was correlated with synchronous liver metastasis (P<0.001). Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed that the tenascin C staining intensity was an independent prognostic factor to predict postoperative overall survival (P=0.005; n=139) and liver metastasis-free survival (P=0.001; n=128).CONCLUSIONS: Alterations of miRNAs in CRC stroma appear to form a metastasis-permissive environment that can elevate tenascin C to promote liver metastasis. Tenascin C in primary CRC stroma has the potential to be a novel biomarker to predict postoperative prognosis. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#MicroRNAs#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Stromal Cells#Survival Rate#Tenascin#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Nitric oxide, a signaling molecule, inhibits mitochondrial respiration by binding with cytochrome c oxidase, resulting in elevated production of reactive superoxide species (reactive oxygen and nitrogen) in the mitochondria and increased susceptibility to cell death. Generation of mitochondrial superoxide species can be suppressed by natural compounds such as resveratrol, a dietary polyphenol found in the skin of red fruits. In various cancer cells, resveratrol shows anti-oxidant and cancer preventive properties. Since, the effect of resveratrol on reactive superoxide species-independent apoptosis in prostate cancer cells is not well illustrated; therefore, we investigated this phenomenon in TRAMP murine prostate cancer cells. To accomplish this, TRAMP cells were incubated with resveratrol, resveratrol\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89DETA-NONOate, DETA-NONOate (nitric oxide donor), resveratrol\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89L-NMMA, or L-NMMA (nitric oxide inhibitor) for 48\xe2\x80\x89h, and reactive superoxide species in the mitochondria and culture supernatant were measured. In addition, the mitochondrial membrane potential, cell viability, expression of apoptotic markers (Bax and Bcl2), \xce\xb3-H2A.x, p53, and caspase-3 was determined. We found that resveratrol suppressed reactive superoxide species such as reactive oxygen species in the mitochondria and nitric oxide in culture supernatant when compared to the DETA-NONOate treatment and disrupted the mitochondrial membrane potential. Resveratrol also reduced cell viability, altered the expression of apoptotic markers (Bax and Bcl2), and increased expression of \xce\xb3-H2A.x (indicative marker of DNA fragmentation) and p53 (a critical DNA damage response protein). However, there was no appreciable modulation of the caspase-3. Therefore, our data suggest that resveratrol induces superoxide species-independent apoptosis and may act as a therapeutic agent against prostate cancer. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Disease Models, Animal#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mice#Prostatic Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Stilbenes'
b"Microphysiological systems (MPS), which include engineered organoids (EOs), single organ/tissue chips (TCs), and multiple organs interconnected to create miniature in vitro models of human physiological systems, are rapidly becoming effective tools for drug development and the mechanistic understanding of tissue physiology and pathophysiology. The second MPS thematic issue of Experimental Biology and Medicine comprises 15 articles by scientists and engineers from the National Institutes of Health, the IQ Consortium, the Food and Drug Administration, and Environmental Protection Agency, an MPS company, and academia. Topics include the progress, challenges, and future of organs-on-chips, dissemination of TCs into Pharma, children's health protection, liver zonation, liver chips and their coupling to interconnected systems, gastrointestinal MPS, maturation of immature cardiomyocytes in a heart-on-a-chip, coculture of multiple cell types in a human skin construct, use of synthetic hydrogels to create EOs that form neural tissue models, the blood-brain barrier-on-a-chip, MPS models of coupled female reproductive organs, coupling MPS devices to create a body-on-a-chip, and the use of a microformulator to recapitulate endocrine circadian rhythms. While MPS hardware has been relatively stable since the last MPS thematic issue, there have been significant advances in cell sourcing, with increased reliance on human-induced pluripotent stem cells, and in characterization of the genetic and functional cell state in MPS bioreactors. There is growing appreciation of the need to minimize perfusate-to-cell-volume ratios and respect physiological scaling of coupled TCs. Questions asked by drug developers are followed by an analysis of the potential value, costs, and needs of Pharma. Of highest value and lowest switching costs may be the development of MPS disease models to aid in the discovery of disease mechanisms; novel compounds including probes, leads, and clinical candidates; and mechanism of action of drug candidates. Impact statement Microphysiological systems (MPS), which include engineered organoids and both individual and coupled organs-on-chips and tissue chips, are a rapidly growing topic of research that addresses the known limitations of conventional cellular monoculture on flat plastic - a well-perfected set of techniques that produces reliable, statistically significant results that may not adequately represent human biology and disease. As reviewed in this article and the others in this thematic issue, MPS research has made notable progress in the past three years in both cell sourcing and characterization. As the field matures, currently identified challenges are being addressed, and new ones are being recognized. Building upon investments by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, National Institutes of Health, Food and Drug Administration, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, and Environmental Protection Agency of more than $200 million since 2012 and sizable corporate spending, academic and commercial players in the MPS community are demonstrating their ability to meet the translational challenges required to apply MPS technologies to accelerate drug development and advance toxicology. labels: #Drug Evaluation, Preclinical#Humans#Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells#Lab-On-A-Chip Devices#Microchip Analytical Procedures#Microfluidics#Tissue Engineering"
b'OBJECTIVES: To examine intelligence, language, and academic achievement through 18 years of age among children with congenital cytomegalovirus infection identified through hospital-based newborn screening who were asymptomatic at birth compared with uninfected infants.METHODS: We used growth curve modeling to analyze trends in IQ (full-scale, verbal, and nonverbal intelligence), receptive and expressive vocabulary, and academic achievement in math and reading. Separate models were fit for each outcome, modeling the change in overall scores with increasing age for patients with normal hearing (n= 78) or with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) diagnosed by 2 years of age (n= 11) and controls (n= 40).RESULTS: Patients with SNHL had full-scale intelligence and receptive vocabulary scores that were 7.0 and 13.1 points lower, respectively, compared with controls, but no significant differences were noted in these scores among patients with normal hearing and controls. No significant differences were noted in scores for verbal and nonverbal intelligence, expressive vocabulary, and academic achievement in math and reading among patients with normal hearing or with SNHL and controls.CONCLUSIONS: Infants with asymptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus infection identified through newborn screening with normal hearing by age 2 years do not appear to have differences in IQ, vocabulary or academic achievement scores during childhood, or adolescence compared with uninfected children. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Asymptomatic Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Cytomegalovirus Infections#Educational Status#Female#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Intelligence#Intelligence Tests#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Neonatal Screening#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Children with intestinal failure (IF) on parenteral nutrition (PN) are at high risk for bacteremia, and delays in antibiotic administration have been associated with increased morbidity and mortality. We designed an emergency department (ED) quality improvement (QI) initiative to reduce time to administration of intravenous antibiotics in febrile children with IF on PN.METHODS: Our aim was to decrease the mean time for febrile children with IF on PN to receive intravenous antibiotics by 50% to<60 minutes over a 12-month period. Secondary outcome measures were ED, hospital, and ICU length of stay (LOS). Our process measure was the rate of ordering recommended antibiotics, and our balancing measure was the rate of hypoglycemia. Interventions included increasing provider knowledge of IF, streamlining order entry, providing individualized feedback, and standardizing the triage process. Results were analyzed by using statistical process control methodology and time series analysis.RESULTS: We identified 149 eligible ED patients, of which 62 (41.6%) had bacteremia. The mean time to antibiotics decreased after the onset of the QI initiative from 112 to 39 minutes, and the ED LOS decreased from 286 to 247 minutes, but the total length of hospital and ICU stays were unchanged. The rate of hypoglycemia was also unchanged.CONCLUSIONS: Our QI intervention for febrile children with IF on PN shortened the time to receive antibiotics. Larger studies are needed to demonstrate the impact on overall LOS and mortality. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacteremia#Central Venous Catheters#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Female#Fever#Humans#Intestinal Diseases#Length of Stay#Male#Short Bowel Syndrome#Time-to-Treatment'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Metastasis in lung cancer is a major cause of high mortality. Metastasis depends on the potential of cancer cells to migrate and invade. Here we demonstrated the anti-migration and invasion activities of the compound cycloartobiloxanthone from Artocarpus gomezianus Wall. ex Tr\xc3\xa9c. (Moraceae).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effect of the compound on viability of human lung cancer H460 cells was investigated by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MTT) assay. Migration and invasion assays were performed. Filopodia formation was determined by phalloidin-rhodamine staining. The hallmark signaling proteins in regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), migration, and integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1V, \xce\xb21 and \xce\xb23 were determined by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Cycloartobiloxanthone at concentrations lower than 10 \xce\xbcM has no cytotoxic effects. Regarding cell motility, cycloartobiloxanthone at 5-10 \xce\xbcM and 1-10 \xce\xbcM exhibited anti-migration and anti-invasion activities, respectively. Filopodia were found to be significantly reduced in cycloartobiloxanthone-treated cells. These effects correlated with the results from western blot analysis showing that the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase on Try397 (p-FAK (Try397)), and cell division cycle 42 (CDC42) were significantly reduced. Cycloartobiloxanthone significantly suppressed migratory integrins including integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1V, and \xce\xb23, while had no significant effect on integrin \xce\xb21. Besides, the compound suppressed epithelial to mesenchymal transition in lung cancer H460 cells indicated by the change in cell morphology form fibroblast-like to epithelial morphology with up-regulation of E-cadherin.CONCLUSION: Cycloartobiloxanthone possesses anti-migration and anti-invasion properties by suppressing several migratory-regulated mechanisms including suppressing migratory FAK and CDC42 signal, reduced filopodia of migrating cells, decreasing integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1v and \xce\xb23, and inhibiting EMT. Our findings demonstrated the potentials of cycloartobiloxanthone for further studies and developments. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Flavonoids#Focal Adhesion Kinase 1#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Metastasis#Phosphorylation'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pancreatic cancer is a disease with very poor prognosis, and none of currently available pharmacotherapies have proven to be efficient in this indication. The aim of this study was to analyze the expression of fatty acid synthase (FASN) gene as a potential therapeutic target in proliferating human pancreatic cancer cells (PANC-1), and verify if orlistat, originally developed as an anti-obesity drug, inhibits PANC-1 proliferation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of orlistat on gene expression, lipogenesis, proliferation and apoptosis was studied in PANC-1 cell culture.RESULTS: Expression of FASN increased during proliferation of PANC-1. Inhibition of FASN by orlistat resulted in a significant reduction of PANC-1 proliferation and enhanced apoptosis of these cells.CONCLUSION: This study showed, to our knowledge for the first time, that orlistat exhibits significant antitumor activity against PANC-1 cells. This implies that orlistat analogs with good oral bioavailability may find application in pharmacotherapy of pancreatic cancer. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Fatty Acid Synthase, Type I#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lactones#Lipogenesis#Pancreatic Neoplasms'
b"BACKGROUND: Pyrazole derivatives have been reported to have potent antimicrobial and anticancer activity. We recently synthesized and determined the effects of analogs, benzamidoxime derivatives, on mammalian cells and discovered that benzamidoximes had an antiproliferative effect. Here we synthesized and determined the anticancer effects of hydrazonopyrazole derivatives on a mammalian cancer cell line.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We synthesized 12 hydrazonopyrazole derivatives with several constant alkyl chain length or branched chains at the side chain to investigate their anticancer cell activity, using the human myelogenous leukemia cell line HL-60RG.RESULTS: Among all hydrazonopyrazole derivatives we synthesized, the hydrazonopyrazole derivative with a branched chain at the side chain rather than a constant alkyl chain significantly inhibited cell viability. The strongest hydrazonopyrazole derivative, 5-amino-4-cyanopyrazole-1-formaldehydehydrazono-3'-pentanal, tended to damage cells dose-dependently. This cell growth attenuation was a result of apoptosis, activating caspase-3 and fragmented DNA.CONCLUSION: Hydrazonopyrazole derivatives induced apoptosis of HL-60RG leukemia cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspase 3#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#DNA Fragmentation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia#Pyrazoles#Structure-Activity Relationship"
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: This study investigated the co-delivery of plasmid DNA and antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotide (AS ODN) into carcinoma cells by cholic acid-modified polyethylenimine (PEI-CA).MATERIALS AND METHODS: PEI-CA/plasmid DNA and AS ODN complexes were formulated and evaluated for delivery of plasmid DNA and AS ODN in HeLa cells. The efficiency of co-delivery of plasmid DNA and AS ODN was evaluated by cell growth inhibition using p53 and bcl-2 AS ODN.RESULTS: AS ODN intracellular delivery and green fluorescent protein expression upon cellular transfection were greater than in cells treated with uncomplexed nucleic acids. Treatment of the cells with PEI-CA/p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN complexes resulted in cell growth inhibition that was greater than that of either PEI-CA/p53 plasmid DNA complexes or PEI-CA/bcl-2 AS ODN complexes alone.CONCLUSION: The co-delivery of p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN in PEI-CA complexes enhanced therapeutic activities of both p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN. labels: #Carcinoma#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Genetic Therapy#Genetic Vectors#Green Fluorescent Proteins#HeLa Cells#Humans#Oligodeoxyribonucleotides, Antisense#Plasmids#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'BACKGROUND: Studies have revealed that cancer might be treated with cannabinoids since they can influence cancer cell survival. These findings suggest an alternative treatment option to chemo- and radiotherapy, that are associated with numerous adverse side-effects for the patients.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Viability staining was conducted on lung cancer, testicular cancer and neuroblastoma cells treated with different concentrations of the synthetic cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 and the percentage of dead cells was compared. Activity of apoptosis-related enzymes was investigated by the presence of DNA ladder in gel electrophoresis.RESULTS: Treatment with different WIN 55,212-2 concentrations led to a significant dose-dependent reduction of cell viability. A DNA ladder was observed after WIN 55,212-2 treatment of testicular cancer and lung cancer cells.CONCLUSION: The application of WIN 55,212-2 was found to trigger cell death in the investigated cell lines. The decline in lung cancer and testicular cancer cell viability seems to have been caused by apoptosis. These findings may contribute to development of alternative cancer therapy strategies. labels: #A549 Cells#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzoxazines#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#DNA Fragmentation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Morpholines#Naphthalenes#Neuroblastoma#Testicular Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: Feasibility and efficacy of boric acid (BA)-mediated boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) was first demonstrated by eliminating hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in a rat model. Furthermore, selective uptake of BA by liver tumor cells was shown in a rabbit model. To gain further insight, this study aimed to investigate the mechanisms of transportation and selective uptake of BA in HepG2 liver tumor cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Transportation of BA in HepG2 cells was analyzed by time-course assays and by analyzing the rate of diffusion versus the concentration of BA. The effect of different tumor conditions on BA uptake was studied by treating HepG2 cells with 25 \xce\xbcg10B/ml BA under different concentrations of glucose, at different pH and in the presence of water-soluble cholesterol.RESULTS: HepG2 cells mainly uptake BA by simple diffusion. Cell membrane permeability may also contribute to tumor-specific uptake of BA.CONCLUSION: The selective uptake of BA was achieved primarily by diffusion, while other factors, such as low pH and increased membrane fluidity, which are hallmarks of HCC, might further enhance BA uptake. labels: #Boric Acids#Boron Neutron Capture Therapy#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cell Membrane#Cholesterol#Glucose#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Liver Neoplasms#Spectrophotometry, Atomic#Tumor Microenvironment'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The oxazaphosphorines, ifosfamide and cyclophosphamide, represent a class of alkylating agents. The aim of the present in vitro study was to compare antileukemic activity of 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide (4-OOH-IF) and 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-OOH-CP).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed on MOLT-4 and ML-1 cells. The research was conducted using flow cytometry fluorescein diacetate/propidium iodide (PI), fluorescein-conjugated annexin V/PI, CaspGLOW Red Active Caspase-8 and -9, CellEvent\xe2\x84\xa2 Caspase-3/7 Green assays, and tetramethylrhodamine ethyl ester test.RESULTS: 4-OOH-IF and 4-OOH-CP distinctly reduced cell viability and triggered apoptosis and necrosis, causing changes in intracellular esterase activity, plasma membrane structure and integrity, caspase activation, and mitochondrial membrane potential. The oxazaphosphorines were responsible for the different antileukemic activities. 4-Hydroperoxyifosfamide appeared to be less cytotoxic against the leukemia cells than 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide. MOLT-4 cells were more sensitive to the action of the oxazaphosphorines than ML-1 cells.CONCLUSION: The findings provide a new insight on the mechanisms of cytotoxic action of 4-OOH-IF and 4-OOH-CP on the human acute lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemia cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspases#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Membrane#Cell Survival#Cyclophosphamide#Esterases#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Ifosfamide#Leukemia#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Epidoxorubicin is an anthracycline agent. The present study was undertaken to compare the antileukemic potential of epidoxorubicin and its two formamidine analogs containing either a morpholine moiety (EPIFmor) or a hexamethyleneimine moiety (EPIFhex) in the amidine group.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed in vitro on MOLT-4 cells using spectrophotometry, Coulter electrical impedance, flow cytometry, and light microscopy methods.RESULTS: The leukemia cell responses to the action of the anthracyclines were manifested in their different viability, count and volume, degree of apoptosis and necrosis, activity of caspases -8, -9, and -3/7, mitochondrial membrane potential, and in the cell-cycle distribution. In general, epidoxorubicin appeared to be the most active, and EPIFmor was more active than EPIFhex against MOLT-4 cells.CONCLUSION: The structural modifications of epidoxorubicin in the amidine group were responsible for the varied action of its formamidine analogs on human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. labels: #Amidines#Anthracyclines#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspases#Cell Cycle#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Epirubicin#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Membrane Potentials#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: To search for new antileukemic agents, the chemical structure of phenytoin was modified. A possible cytotoxic activity of three bromoalkyl phenytoin analogs, methyl 2-(1-(3-bromopropyl)-2,4-dioxo-5,5-diphenylimidazolidin-3-yl) propanoate (PH2), 1-(3-bromopropyl)-3-methyl-5,5-diphenylimidazolidine-2,4-dione (PH3) and 1-(4-bromobutyl)-3-methyl-5,5-diphenylimidazolidine-2,4-dione (PH4) on regulated cell death, the cell cycle and cell ultrastructure was assessed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed in vitro on HL-60 and U937 cells, using flow cytometry and electron microscopy methods.RESULTS: Application of PH2, PH3, and PH4 resulted in cell surface exposure of phosphatidylserine and plasma membrane impairment, caspase-8, -9, and -3/7 activation, dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, DNA breakage, cell-cycle disturbance and cell ultrastructural changes. In general, PH3 appeared to be the most active against the leukemia cells, and all bromoalkyl hydantoins, PH2-PH4, were more active in HL-60 cells than in U937 cells.CONCLUSION: The antileukemic activity of the bromoalkyl phenytoin analogs depended on the combination of N-hydantoin substituents and the human cell line used. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Caspases#Cell Cycle#Cell Membrane#DNA Breaks#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Molecular Structure#Phenytoin#U937 Cells'
b'Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest malignancies characterized by strong resistance to almost all chemotherapeutic agents and radiotherapy. In this study, we aimed to investigate the anticancer effect, enzymatic antioxidant activity [superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx)] and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) of synthesized benzothiazole compounds against adenocarcinoma cancer cells (PANC-1). 2-((1S,2S)-2-((E)-4-nitrostyryl)cyclopent-3-en-1-yl)benzo[d]thiazole and 2-((1S,2S)-2-((E)-4-fluorostyryl) cyclopent-3-en-1-yl)benzo[d]thiazole containing 2-substituted benzothiazole group were synthesized in two steps. PANC-1 cells were treated with different concentrations of benzothiazole compounds (5, 25, 50. 75 and 100 \xce\xbcM) for 48 h and their cytotoxicity effects were determined by the MTT assay. To determine whether these compounds induced apoptosis, PANC-1 cells were treated with increasing concentrations of the synthetic products. Our study showed that the synthesized compounds have antiproliferative effects against PANC-1 cells and reduced cell viability. These compounds induced apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells and at the same time reduced the activity of SOD and GPx and reduced TAC. On the basis of these findings, these synthesized benzothiazole compounds may be considered as a potential therapeutic drug against human PANC-1 cancer cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Antioxidants#Benzothiazoles#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Glutathione Peroxidase#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Molecular Structure#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Structure-Activity Relationship#Superoxide Dismutase'
b'Pipoxolan is frequently prescribed as a smooth muscle relaxant. Pipoxolan has also been shown to have anticancer activity. Our study investigated whether pipoxolan induced apoptosis in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Cell cytotoxicity was evaluated by the MTT assay. Cell apoptosis and cell-cycle distribution were measured by annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) double staining and flow cytometry, respectively. Apoptotic-related proteins were assessed by western blotting. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) were measured with fluorescent probes. Following exposure of TW206 OSCC cells to pipoxolan, a time-dependently decrease in MMP and an increase in ROS were observed. However, these effects were significantly abrogated by the free radical scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Since high levels of ROS were produced early in the treatment, intracellular ROS seemed to play a key role in pipoxolan-induced apoptosis. In HSC-3 OSCC cells, our results demonstrated that pipoxolan treatment caused a time-dependent increase of protein expression of active caspase-3 and -9, cytosolic cytochrome c, cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, and B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2)-like protein 4 (BAX). However, expression of BCL2 itself was reduced. Clearly, such an increase in BAX/BCL2 ratio would be associated with apoptosis. In addition, pipoxolan markedly suppressed the protein expression of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K) and phosphorylation of protein kinase B (AKT). These data suggest that pipoxolan acts against HSC-3 in vitro via intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathways, and inhibition of PI3K/AKT signaling. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Dioxolanes#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Matrix Metalloproteinases#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mouth Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Signal Transduction'
b'AIM: Cisplatin plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or S-1 is a standard therapy for gastric cancer (GC). However, cisplatin is emetic and potentially nephrotoxic. Oxaliplatin may be less toxic, but few basic data are available for this setting. Here, we evaluated oxaliplatin for GC, by testing surgical specimens.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated effects of oxaliplatin and 5-FU, alone and in combination, on surgical specimens from 11 patients with GC, using collagen gel droplet embedded culture drug tests.RESULTS: Oxaliplatin was less efficacious than 5-FU, and its synergistic effect was less in tumors highly sensitive to 5-FU than in those with low sensitivity. Tumor differentiation and drug sensitivity were not correlated.CONCLUSION: Although oxaliplatin monotherapy had little effect on GC, we saw a limited synergistic effect of oxaliplatin with 5-FU in 5-FU-sensitive patients. Collagen gel droplet embedded culture drug tests may predict this synergistic effect, and help select candidates for this or other regimens. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Cell Culture Techniques#Cisplatin#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Drug Synergism#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Male#Middle Aged#Stomach Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Lomefloxacin (LFX) is a widely used fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agent that plays an important role in the treatment of human and animal infections; however, it has been reported to cause phototoxicity. In this study, we investigated the induction of apoptosis due to ultraviolet A (UVA) light in the presence and absence of LFX in HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells. HL-60 cells were exposed to UVA at an intensity of 1.1 mW/cm2for 20 min in the presence and absence of LFX, and the induction of apoptosis was examined by analyzing cell morphology, DNA fragmentation, and caspase-3 activity. Cells treated with 100 \xce\xbcM LFX and UVA clearly showed membrane blebbing and cell shrinkage. The proportion of apoptotic cells was significantly higher in cells treated with both UVA and LFX than in those treated with UVA or LFX alone. In addition, DNA ladder formation and caspase-3 activation were observed in cells treated with both UVA and LFX. A significant reduction in the number of UVA-induced apoptotic cells and caspase-3 activation was observed when histidine was present, which suggested that photodynamically-generated singlet oxygen is an important mediator of apoptosis. These results indicate that the combination of UVA and LFX induces apoptosis in HL-60 cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspase 3#Cell Survival#Combined Modality Therapy#DNA Fragmentation#Fluoroquinolones#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Photochemotherapy#Ultraviolet Rays#Ultraviolet Therapy'
b'BACKGROUND: Lactoperoxidase (LPO) is an antimicrobial protein secreted from mammary, salivary and other mucosal glands. It is an important member of heme peroxidase enzymes and the primary peroxidase enzyme present in breast tissues. In addition to the antimicrobial properties, LPO has been shown to be associated with breast cancer etiology. Heterocyclic amines, an important class of environmental and dietary carcinogens, have been increasingly associated with breast cancer etiology. Heterocyclic amines undergo activation in breast tissue as a result of oxidation by LPO. The current study includes three important heterocyclic amines, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) and 2-amino-1-methy-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]-pyridine (PhIP), that have carcinogenic activity.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The structural binding characterization of IQ, MeIQx and PhIP with LPO was done using in silico approaches. Their binding pattern and interactions with LPO amino acid residues were analyzed.RESULTS: The three compounds bound in the distal heme cavity of LPO without replacing the important water molecule required for oxidation of substrate compounds. PhIP displayed lesser binding affinity for LPO in comparison to IQ and MeIQx. The binding mode of heterocyclic amines in distal heme cavity of LPO resembled to that of substrate binding pattern.CONCLUSION: The three heterocyclic amines are suggested to act as LPO substrate. The undisturbed water molecule present in distal heme cavity of the LPO is expected to facilitate the oxidation and activation of the three heterocyclic amines. These activated compounds may potentially bind with DNA in breast tissues forming DNA adducts and may subsequently lead to breast cancer initiation. labels: #Amines#Binding Sites#Breast Neoplasms#Carcinogens#Female#Humans#Lactoperoxidase#Models, Molecular#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Protein Binding#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The aim of this retrospective study was to clarify the effectiveness of chemotherapy with gemcitabine combined with low-dose 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin (GFP) for advanced biliary carcinoma after hepatectomy.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two patients had biliary carcinoma with lymph node metastasis, intrahepatic metastasis or positive surgical margins, including intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (IHC, n=25), hilar cholangiocarcinoma (HC, n=14), and gallbladder cancer (GBC, n=23). Twenty-eight patients (IHC; n=9, HC; n=8, GBC; n=11) received adjuvant GFP chemotherapy.RESULTS: We found no significant difference in clinicopathological factors in patients treated with or without adjuvant GFP chemotherapy. Overall, survival in the adjuvant GFP group was significantly better than that in the non-adjuvant GFP group (3-year survival: 61.9% vs. 8.8%, p<0.001), as was relapse-free survival.CONCLUSION: Adjuvant GFP chemotherapy after hepatectomy may be a promising option for improving surgical outcomes in patients with advanced biliary carcinoma. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Cholangiocarcinoma#Cisplatin#Deoxycytidine#Female#Fluorouracil#Gallbladder Neoplasms#Hepatectomy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Despite an expected prognostic disadvantage for upper tract versus lower tract metastatic urothelial carcinomas (UTUC/LTUC), only few studies have been conducted to elucidate potential differences in chemotherapy treatment.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A post-hoc subgroup analysis of a non-interventional study investigating vinflunine after failure of a platinum-based chemotherapy in metastatic/locally advanced UC patients was performed.RESULTS: A total of 18 and 59 out of 77 patients had UTUC and LTUC, respectively. The effectiveness of vinflunine treatment was comparable with an overall response rate of 22.2% and 23.7% respectively and a median progression-free survival of 2.76 months in both groups. Median overall survival was 5.0 months in UTUC compared to 8.2 months in the LTUC group (p=0.478). The safety profile was in accordance with previous vinflunine experiences, with a comparable frequency of adverse events in both groups.CONCLUSION: Vinflunine can be applied in the 2nd line for UC regardless of the primary tumor localization. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urologic Neoplasms#Vinblastine'
b'AIM: We investigated bladder urothelial carcinoma with peritoneal involvement.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Inclusion criteria were: pathology-confirmed urothelial carcinoma; peritoneal spread identified on computed tomographic (CT) scans performed initially or after either cystectomy or concomitant chemoradiotherapy (CCRT), and absence of visceral metastases; and chemotherapy administered after peritoneal spread was diagnosed.RESULTS: Forty-seven cases included initial modes of therapy with chemotherapy in 24 patients (51%), cystectomy in 17 (36%), and CCRT in six (13%), only given as a result of under-staging. After local therapy, these patients received a continuous maintenance chemotherapy regimen of 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, cisplatin, and gemcitabine. The overall response rate was 85%, and the side-effects were mild and tolerated. The median survival time was 28 months. The survival time of cases initially treated only with chemotherapy was not statistically different to that of those with local disease.CONCLUSION: Bladder urothelial carcinomas with peritoneal involvement can benefit from continuous maintenance chemotherapy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Cystectomy#Deoxycytidine#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Leucovorin#Maintenance Chemotherapy#Male#Middle Aged#Peritoneal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: Heavily treated patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have few treatment options, while irinotecan and bevacizumab have proven synergistic action in preclinical studies.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 49 patients with heavily treated NSCLC were enrolled from 2011-2014 and treated with irinotecan and bevacizumab. Treatment response along with mutational status of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP1) and EGFR expression were evaluated. Progression-free (PFS) and overall (OS) survival were monitored.RESULTS: Median follow-up was 13.2 months. Twenty-three patients had received three or more prior therapy lines. Overall response rate was 32% [95% confidence interval (CI)=22%-39%] and 26% of patients achieved stable disease. Median PFS was 4.4 (95% CI=2.8-8.3) months and median OS 18.0 (95% CI=16.2-30.7) months. Nine patients harboring EGFR mutations had a long-lasting partial response. A shorter OS was found in patients with a higher TIMP1 expression (p=0.006).CONCLUSION: Irinotecan combined with bevacizumab had favorable antitumor activity in heavily pretreated patients with NSCLC. These results suggest this is a reasonable strategy, particularly for patients with low TIMP1 expression. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bevacizumab#Camptothecin#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Survival Analysis#Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-1#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy demonstrated a survival benefit versus cystectomy alone in muscle-invasive urothelial bladder cancer. Despite this advantage, preoperative chemotherapy is not widely employed. When patients are unfit for cisplatin-based regimen, they are often candidates for immediate surgery. In our study, patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer were treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The principal objective was the rate of complete pathological response (pCR). Secondary end-points were disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS) and toxicity.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients (n=72) with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-1, clinical stage cT3-4, and/or N+ muscle-invasive bladder cancer were enrolled. The chemotherapy regimen was established according to the cisplatin feasibility. Thirty patients were treated with cisplatin/gemcitabine (Gem) and 42 with carboplatin/Gem.RESULTS: The rate of pCR was 29.2%, 36% with cisplatin-based treatment and 23.8% with carboplatin (p=0.3574). DFS and OS were longer in pCR patients, while no difference was reported between cisplatin/Gem and Carboplatin/Gem groups.CONCLUSION: Our results confirm the prognostic value of pCR in neoadjuvant chemotherapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer. When the patients are not fit for cisplatin, a carboplatin/Gem regimen represents a valid option because of comparable long-term outcome. When cisplatin is not feasible, the exclusion of a preoperative treatment is not justified. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carboplatin#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Cisplatin#Cystectomy#Deoxycytidine#Disease-Free Survival#Feasibility Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Prospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Readministration of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) antibody for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) after disease progression remains to be determined.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Readministration of anti-EGFR antibody in mCRC patients previously refractory to anti-EGFR antibody was prospectively observed.RESULTS: A total of thirteen patients with a median age of 60-years old and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0 or 1, were enrolled. The median number of previous chemotherapies was 3 (range 2-5). Prior anti-EGFR antibody in combination with cytotoxic drugs was administered in 12 patients. Anti-EGFR antibody readministration regimens were cetuximab/panitumumab plus capecitabine/S-1 (seven patients), panitumumab plus FOLFOX (three patients), cetuximab plus irinotecan (two patients), and panitumumab monotherapy (one patient). Seven patients showed stable disease following readministration and six patients showed progressive disease. The median overall survival (OS) following readministration was 228 days and the median PFS was 102 days. Patients with intervals longer than 90 days between anti-EGFR therapies exhibited more favorable survival than those with intervals shorter than 90 days. Switching of anti-EGFR antibody between treatments was observed to contribute survival.CONCLUSION: Anti-EGFR antibody readministration could show a modest survival benefit in mCRC patients, with the length of therapy interval and switching of antibody being important contributory factors. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Camptothecin#Capecitabine#Cetuximab#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Leucovorin#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Organoplatinum Compounds#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Retreatment#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Erlotinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR); it is used in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We focused on the role of serum concentration of erlotinib and its association with outcome and toxicity in patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring the wild-type EGFR gene or squamous histology.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Clinical data of 122 patients were analyzed. Serum samples were collected within four weeks after the initiation of treatment.RESULTS: There was no significant association of erlotinib concentration with PFS nor OS (p=0.352 and p=0.6393). Significant associations of erlotinib concentration with grade of skin rash and diarrhoea (p<0.0001 and p<0.0001) were found. Skin rash and diarrhoea were significantly associated with PFS (p=0.0338 and p=0.0001) and OS (p=0.0064 and p=0.0353).CONCLUSION: Erlotinib concentration was not associated with outcome. Erlotinib concentration was associated with occurrence and severity of skin rash and diarrhoea; the outcome was associated with erlotinib toxicity. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Diarrhea#Disease-Free Survival#Erlotinib Hydrochloride#Exanthema#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Neoplasm Staging#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'Several second-generation inhibitors of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) have demonstrated potent activity in ALK rearrangement-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Two of these agents, ceritinib, and alectinib, recently received approval for the treatment of ALK-rearranged NSCLC in Japan. The efficacy of treatment with a second-generation ALK inhibitor after failure with a different second-generation ALK inhibitor remains unclear. We present a series of eight patients with ALK-rearranged NSCLC treated with alectinib who experienced disease progression after ceritinib. Both crizotinib and ceritinib were administered to six patients, with four (29%) patients receiving crizotinib followed by ceritinib. Among the eight study patients, two (25%) had partial response, one (12%) stable disease, and five (63%) had progressive disease. The median progression-free survival was 3.6 months (95% confidence interval=0-7.1 months). The results of this study suggest that the second-generation ALK inhibitor alectinib has limited efficacy after initial treatment with the second-generation ALK inhibitor ceritinib. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carbazoles#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Receptor Protein-Tyrosine Kinases#Sulfones#Survival Analysis#Treatment Failure#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Taxanes are among the key drugs for breast cancer treatment. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of upfront weekly nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel (Nab-PTX; 100 mg/m2) for human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancer.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with stage II to IV breast cancer received 12 cycles of weekly 100 mg/m2Nab-PTX as first-line treatment. Preoperative chemotherapy with anthracyclines after Nab-PTX was recommended.RESULTS: From 2012 to 2014, we enrolled 66 patients. The overall response rate after Nab-PTX was 59.1% [95% confidence interval(CI)=47.2% to 71.0%), 63.6% in those with hormone receptor-positive tumors, and 36.4% in those with triple-negative tumors. The pathological complete response rate at surgery was 15% (95% CI=6.1% to 24.4%). Toxicity analysis showed grade 2 peripheral neuropathy in 38 patients (57.6%), grade 2/3 leukocytopenia in 29 (43.9%) and grade 2/3 liver dysfunction in five (7.5%).CONCLUSION: Weekly neoadjuvant Nab-PTX at 100 mg/m2led to good response rates (59.1%) and was well tolerated. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel#Anthracyclines#Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasm Staging#Receptor, ErbB-2#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of colorectal liver metastases (CRLMs) is a method developed in the last 15 years. It provides an acceptable control of the malignant process with lower risks compared to surgical resection. The aim of the study was to assess immediate and long-term results, including recurrence, survival, morbidity/mortality rates after RFA.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two cases with CRLMs were treated by RFA during open surgery (89 lesions). Patients were followed-up for a minimum of 36 months, with assessment of recurrences and survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years, using computed tomography (CT) scan, contrast-enhanced ultrasound and tumor markers (carcinoembryonoc antigen, carbohydrate antigen-19.9).RESULTS: Local relapses, recurrences in other areas and survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years suggest acceptable values comparative with liver resections in the first 2-3 years and demonstrated long-term limitations, despite the use of adjuvant chemotherapy. Major postoperative negative prognostic factors are tumor multicentricity and tumor's dimensions over 5 cm.CONCLUSION: RFA of CRLMs is a safe procedure with low rates of local relapses and recurrences, as well as acceptable survival rates, in the first 24-36 months post-procedure. It is recommended for patients with no indications for liver resection or having major resection risks. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Catheter Ablation#Colorectal Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: Many studies have shown that depression increases mortality risk. We aimed to investigate the duration of time over which depression is associated with increased risk of mortality, secular trends in the association between depression and mortality, and sex differences in the association between depression and mortality.METHODS: We conducted a cohort study of 3410 adults enrolled in 3 representative samples of a county in Atlantic Canada in 1952 (n= 1003), 1970 (n= 1203) or 1992 (n= 1402) (the Stirling County Study). Depression was measured using a diagnostic algorithm based on the presence of depressed mood and associated symptoms, duration of more than 1 month, and substantial impairment. Vital status of participants through 2011 was determined using probabilistic linkages to the Canadian Mortality Database.RESULTS: Depression was associated with a heightened risk of mortality among men during the 3 time periods of the study, with hazard ratios (HRs) of 2.90 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.69-4.98) between 1952 and 1967, 1.97 (CI 1.34-2.89) between 1968 and 1990, and 1.52 (CI 1.09-2.13) between 1991 and 2011. Elevated risk of mortality was noted among women only between 1990 and 2011 (HR = 1.51; CI = 1.11-2.05).INTERPRETATION: The association between depression and mortality persists over long periods of time and has emerged among women in recent decades, despite contemporaneous improvements in the treatment of depression and reduction of stigma associated with depression. Further research is needed to better understand the mechanisms involved. labels: #Adult#Aged#Canada#Cause of Death#Depression#Depressive Disorder#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Incidence#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Population Surveillance#Proportional Hazards Models#Risk Assessment#Socioeconomic Factors'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Postvaccination syncope can cause injury. Drinking water prephlebotomy increases peripheral vascular tone, decreasing risk of blood-donation presyncope and syncope. This study evaluated whether drinking water prevaccination reduces postvaccination presyncope, a potential syncope precursor.METHODS: We conducted a randomized trial of subjects aged 11 to 21 years receiving \xe2\x89\xa51 intramuscular vaccine in primary care clinics. Intervention subjects were encouraged to drink 500 mL of water, with vaccination recommended 10 to 60 minutes later. Control subjects received usual care. Presyncope symptoms were assessed with a 12-item survey during the 20-minutes postvaccination. Symptoms were classified with a primary cutoff sensitive for presyncope, and a secondary, more restrictive cutoff requiring greater symptoms. Results were adjusted for clustering by recruitment center.RESULTS: There were 906 subjects randomly assigned to the control group and 901 subjects randomly assigned to the intervention group. None had syncope. Presyncope occurred in 36.2% of subjects by using the primary definition, and in 8.0% of subjects by using the restrictive definition. There were no significant differences in presyncope by intervention group for the primary (1-sided test,P= .24) or restrictive outcome (1-sided test,P= .17). Among intervention subjects vaccinated within 10 to 60 minutes after drinking all 500 mL of water (n= 519), no reduction in presyncope was observed for the primary or restrictive outcome (1-sided tests,P= .13,P= .17). In multivariable regression analysis, presyncope was associated with younger age, history of passing out or nearly passing out after a shot or blood draw, prevaccination anxiety, receiving>1 injected vaccine, and greater postvaccination pain.CONCLUSIONS: Drinking water before vaccination did not prevent postvaccination presyncope. Predictors of postvaccination presyncope suggest opportunities for presyncope and syncope prevention interventions. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Drinking#Drinking Water#Female#Humans#Male#Syncope#Vaccination'
b'INTRODUCTION: Epithelial-mesenchymal-transition (EMT) has been previously identified as a contributor to prostate cancer progression to metastasis and therapeutic resistance to antiandrogens and radiotherapy. In this study we conducted a retrospective analysis to investigate the significance of radiation-induced EMT and consequential changes to the tumor microenvironment in biochemical recurrence and response to radiotherapy in prostate cancer patients.METHODS: Expression profiling and localization for EMT effectors, E-Cadherin, N-Cadherin, \xce\xb2-catenin and Vimentin was assessed in human prostate tumor specimens pre- and post-radiotherapy and correlated with biochemical recurrence. In addition, immunoreactivity of the DNA repair enzyme, polymerase (PARP-1) and the cytoskeletal-remodeling regulator, cofilin was evaluated in prostate tumor specimens pre- and post-radiotherapy and correlated with pre-treatment prostate-specific antigen levels (PSA).RESULTS: Our findings identified that characteristic changes associated with the EMT phenotype and its reversal to mesenchymal-epithelial-transition (MET) within the tumor microenvironment correlate with biochemical recurrence and resistance to radiotherapy among prostate cancer patients. Moreover, elevated PARP-1 expression among the tumor cells undergoing EMT implicates that DNA repair mechanisms may potentially reverse the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy-induced DNA breaks.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that EMT programming effectors, integrated with the actin cytoskeleton regulator cofilin and mesenchymal PARP-1 expression profile provide a signature of potential predictive significance of therapeutic response to radiotherapy in a subset of prostate cancer patients. labels: #Aged#Cohort Studies#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Poly (ADP-Ribose) Polymerase-1#Predictive Value of Tests#Prostatic Neoplasms#Radiation Tolerance#Retrospective Studies'
b'PURPOSE: To determine whether there exists any significant difference in normal tissue toxicity between intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or proton therapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A total of 134 study patients (n=49 treated with proton therapy, n=85 with IMRT) treated in a randomized trial had a previously validated esophageal toxicity imaging biomarker, esophageal expansion, quantified during radiation therapy, as well as esophagitis grade (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0), on a weekly basis during treatment. Differences between the 2 modalities were statically analyzed using the imaging biomarker metric value (Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance), as well as the incidence and severity of esophagitis grade (\xcf\x872and Fisher exact tests, respectively). The dose-response of the imaging biomarker was also compared between modalities using esophageal equivalent uniform dose, as well as delivered dose to an isotropic esophageal subvolume.RESULTS: No statistically significant difference in the distribution of esophagitis grade, the incidence of grade \xe2\x89\xa53 esophagitis (15 and 11 patients treated with IMRT and proton therapy, respectively), or the esophageal expansion imaging biomarker between cohorts (P>.05) was found. The distribution of imaging biomarker metric values had similar distributions between treatment arms, despite a slightly higher dose volume in the proton arm (P>.05). Imaging biomarker dose-response was similar between modalities for dose quantified as esophageal equivalent uniform dose and delivered esophageal subvolume dose. Regardless of treatment modality, there was high variability in imaging biomarker response, as well as esophagitis grade, for similar esophageal doses between patients.CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in esophageal toxicity from either proton- or photon-based radiation therapy as quantified by esophagitis grade or the esophageal expansion imaging biomarker. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Analysis of Variance#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Chi-Square Distribution#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Esophagitis#Esophagus#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Photons#Proton Therapy#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Statistics, Nonparametric'
b'PURPOSE: To develop a Monte Carlo model for patient-specific dosimetry of32P microparticle localized internal radionuclide therapy for advanced pancreatic cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Spherical tumor geometries and a pancreatic phantom were modeled, as well as different 3-dimensional non-uniform clinical pancreatic geometries based on patient-specific ultrasound images. The dosimetry simulations modeled the dose distribution due to the energy spectrum of emitted beta particles.RESULTS: The average dose for small (3-cm diameter) and large (6-cm diameter) spherical tumors was 111\xc2\xa0Gy (for 7.6 MBq administered activity) and 128\xc2\xa0Gy (for 58 MBq), respectively. For the clinical 3-dimensional geometries, on the basis of patient data, the mean doses delivered to the tumor were calculated to be in the range 102 to 113\xc2\xa0Gy, with negligible dose to the pancreas for the smallest tumor volumes. The calculated dose distributions are highly non-uniform. For the largest tumor studied, the pancreas received approximately 6% of the tumor dose (5.7\xc2\xa0Gy). Importantly, we found that because the smallest tumor studied exhibited the most dynamic changes in volume in response to the treatment, the dose to tumor and pancreas is significantly underestimated if a static tumor volume is assumed.CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate the dosimetry of32P microparticle localized internal radionuclide therapy for pancreatic cancer and the possibility of developing personalized treatment strategies. The results also highlight the importance of considering the effects of non-uniform dose distributions and dynamic change of tumor mass during treatment on the dosimetry of the tumor and critical organs. labels: #Beta Particles#Humans#Monte Carlo Method#Pancreas#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Phosphorus Radioisotopes#Precision Medicine#Radiotherapy Dosage#Spheroids, Cellular#Tumor Burden#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Ultrasonography'
b'PURPOSE: To identify prognostic factors and patterns of local failure in patients with cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), after surgical resection in the absence of adjuvant radiation, for optimal definition of target volumes encompassing the majority of local recurrences.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A chart review was performed in patients who underwent resection for primary CCA (intrahepatic, hilar, and distal) between 1999 and 2014. Local failure was defined as recurrence in a theoretical reasonable postoperative radiation volume. This includes the cut surface of liver, biliary anastomosis, hilum, portal nodes, celiac nodes, peri-pancreatic nodes, gastro-hepatic nodes, and retroperitoneal nodes. Patients who received adjuvant radiation were excluded.RESULTS: A total of 189 patients underwent surgical resection for CCA, of whom 145 patients had sufficient follow-up. Median follow-up was 41.6\xc2\xa0months (95% confidence interval 35.4-48.7\xc2\xa0months). Of the 145 cases, 102 were intrahepatic and 43 were hilar/distal CCA. Adjuvant chemotherapy was given in 38 cases (26%), of which 20 (54%) were gemcitabine-based. Eighty-six patients (59%) had a documented recurrence, of whom 44 (51%) had a locoregional component. Among patients who had a recurrence, 23 (27%) had a recurrence at the biliary anastomosis and/or cut liver surface. Twenty-eight patients (32.6%) had a recurrence in the regional lymph nodes, most prevalent in the portal (16.3%) and retroperitoneal (17.4%) lymph nodes. Univariable analysis identified tumor size, any vascular invasion, presence of satellites, stage/nodal status, and receipt of chemotherapy as significant prognostic factors of overall recurrence among intrahepatic patients. Presence of satellites, and stage 3/Nx status remained statistically significant in multivariable modeling.CONCLUSIONS: The\xc2\xa0areas at highest risk for locoregional recurrence after surgical resection for primary CCA are the biliary anastomosis/cut liver surface, portal lymph nodes, and retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Although these results need to be validated, adjuvant radiation should possibly cover these areas to maximize locoregional control. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Cholangiocarcinoma#Confidence Intervals#Deoxycytidine#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors'
b'PURPOSE: To update the Diagnosis-Specific Graded Prognostic Assessment (DS-GPA) for a markedly heterogeneous patient population, patients with melanoma and brain metastases, using a larger, more current cohort, including molecular markers.METHODS: The original Melanoma-GPA is based on data from 483 patients whose conditions were diagnosed between 1985 and 2005. This is a multi-institutional retrospective database analysis of 823 melanoma patients with newly diagnosed brain metastases from January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2015. Multivariable analyses identified significant prognostic factors, which were weighted and included in the updated index (Melanoma-molGPA). Multiple Cox regression was used to select and weight prognostic factors in proportion to their hazard ratios to design the updated Melanoma-molGPA in which scores of 4.0 and 0.0 are associated with the best and worst prognoses, as with all of the diagnosis-specific GPA indices. Log-rank tests were used to compare adjacent classes.RESULTS: There were 5 significant prognostic factors for survival (age, Karnofsky performance status [KPS], extracranial metastases [ECM], number of brain metastases, and BRAF status), whereas only KPS and the number of brain metastases were significant in the original Melanoma-GPA. Median survival improved from 6.7 to 9.8\xc2\xa0months between the 2 treatment eras, and the median survival times for patients with Melanoma-molGPA of 0 to 1.0, 1.5 to 2.0, 2.5 to 3.0, and 3.5 to 4.0 were 4.9, 8.3, 15.8, and 34.1\xc2\xa0months (P<.0001 between each adjacent group).CONCLUSIONS: Survival and our ability to estimate survival in melanoma patients with brain metastases has improved significantly. The updated Melanoma-molGPA, a user-friendly tool to estimate survival, will facilitate clinical decision making regarding whether and which treatment is appropriate and will also be useful for stratification of future clinical\xc2\xa0trials. To further simplify use, a free online/smart phone app is available at brainmetgpa.com. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Brain Neoplasms#Clinical Decision-Making#Genetic Markers#Humans#Karnofsky Performance Status#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Regression Analysis'
b'PURPOSE: To\xc2\xa0investigate the relationship between patient and tumor characteristics and pain response in patients with metastatic bone disease, and construct and internally validate a clinical prediction model for pain response to guide individualized treatment decision making.MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 965 patients with painful bone metastases undergoing palliative radiation therapy at a tertiary referral center between 1999 and 2007 were identified. Pain scores were measured at 1, 2, and 3\xc2\xa0months after radiation therapy. Pain response was defined as at least a 2-point decrease on a pain score scale of 0-10, without increase in analgesics, or an analgesic decrease of at least 25% without an increase in pain score. Thirteen candidate predictors were identified from the literature and expert experience. After multiple imputation, final predictors were selected using stepwise regression and collapsed into a prediction model. Model performance was evaluated by calibration and discrimination and corrected for optimism.RESULTS: Overall 462 patients (47.9%) showed a response. Primary tumor site, performance status, and baseline pain score were predictive for pain response, with a corrected c-statistic of 0.63. The predicted response rates after radiation therapy increased from 37.5% for patients with the highest risk score to 79.8% for patients with the lowest risk score and were in good agreement with the observed response rates.CONCLUSIONS: A prediction score for pain response after palliative radiation therapy was developed. The model performance was moderate, showing that prediction of pain response is difficult. New biomarkers and predictors may lead to improved identification of the large group of patients who are unlikely to respond and who may benefit from other or innovative treatment options. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Analgesics#Bone Neoplasms#Breast Neoplasms#Cancer Pain#Decision Making#Female#Humans#Karnofsky Performance Status#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Theoretical#Pain Measurement#Palliative Care#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk#Spinal Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b'PURPOSE: To evaluate the effective dose and patterns of recurrence after stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) for hepatic metastases that arise from colorectal cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A cohort of 70 patients with 103 colorectal liver metastases were treated with SBRT at a single institution. The prescribed doses were 45 to 60\xc2\xa0Gy in 3 to 4 fractions, but these were modified according to the tolerance of the adjacent normal tissue. To allow for dose comparisons, a biological equivalent dose was calculated.RESULTS: The median follow-up period was 34.2\xc2\xa0months (range, 5.3-121.8\xc2\xa0months). The 2-year overall survival and progression-free survival rates were 75% and 35%, respectively. In subgroups, the 2-year local control rates for biological equivalent dose \xe2\x89\xa480\xc2\xa0Gy (group 1), 100 to 112\xc2\xa0Gy (group 2), and \xe2\x89\xa5132\xc2\xa0Gy (group 3) were 52%, 83%, and 89%, respectively. Cox proportional hazards model revealed a significant difference between groups (hazard ratio 0.44, P=.03 for group 2; hazard ratio 0.17, P=.17 for group 3; P=.01 for total). The major pattern of failure was a new liver metastasis out of the SBRT field. There was no grade \xe2\x89\xa53 toxicity.CONCLUSIONS: Stereotactic body radiation therapy of liver metastases derived from colorectal cancer offers a locally effective treatment without significant complications. Longer local control can be expected if higher doses are used. Further studies will be needed to compare the efficacies of SBRT with those of surgical resection or radiofrequency ablation. labels: #Aged#Chemoembolization, Therapeutic#Colorectal Neoplasms#Dose Fractionation#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Organs at Risk#Proportional Hazards Models#Radiosurgery#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Relative Biological Effectiveness#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b'PURPOSE: A recent randomized controlled trial demonstrated that the addition of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to brachytherapy did not improve progression-free survival in select patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. We evaluated whether the addition of EBRT to brachytherapy improves prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM) for intermediate- and high-risk disease using a large national database.METHODS AND MATERIALS: We identified 5836 patients in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare linked database with a diagnosis of National Comprehensive Cancer Network intermediate-risk (Gleason score 7, prostate-specific antigen 10-20\xc2\xa0ng/mL, or stage cT2b-T2c) or high-risk (Gleason score 8-10 or prostate-specific antigen>20\xc2\xa0ng/mL and stage\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa4cT3a) prostate cancer who had undergone brachytherapy, with or without EBRT and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Patients were diagnosed from 2004 through 2009. Intermediate-risk patients with Gleason score \xe2\x89\xa43+4 and 1 intermediate-risk factor were considered favorable and all others unfavorable. We used multivariable Fine-Gray competing risks regression to study PCSM while adjusting for sociodemographic and clinical factors and ADT\xc2\xa0use.RESULTS: Overall, 50.3% of intermediate- and high-risk patients who received brachytherapy and EBRT did not have significantly improved PCSM compared with that of the patients who received brachytherapy alone (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR] 1.46, 95% confidence interval [CI]0.69-3.11; P=.322; 5-year PCSM 2.4% vs 1.0%). This lack of benefit was seen among favorable intermediate-risk (AHR 2.66, 95% CI 0.93-7.62, P=.069; 5-year PCSM 1.3% vs 0.6%), unfavorable intermediate-risk (AHR 0.68, 95% CI 0.16-2.96, P=.612; 5-year PCSM 1.0% vs 1.2%), and high-risk (AHR 1.82, 95% CI 0.67-4.98, P=.242; 5-year PCSM 5.3% vs 2.1%) subgroups.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that certain patients with intermediate- or high-risk prostate cancer treated with brachytherapy might not benefit from the addition of EBRT. A randomized controlled trial of brachytherapy plus ADT with or without EBRT for unfavorable intermediate- and favorable high-risk organ-confined prostate cancer should be undertaken. labels: #Aged#Brachytherapy#Combined Modality Therapy#Databases, Factual#Humans#Male#Neoplasm Grading#Propensity Score#Prostatic Neoplasms#SEER Program'
b'PURPOSE: To\xc2\xa0investigate the associations between interim tumor responses on18F-fluorodeoxyglucose\xc2\xa0(18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and18F-fluorothymidine (18F-FLT) PET and patient outcomes, especially progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients with FDG-PET/computed tomography stage I-III NSCLC were prescribed concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy (60\xc2\xa0Gy in 30 fractions). Scans were acquired at baseline (FDG-PET/computed tomography [FDGBL] for radiation therapy planning and FLT-PET [FLTBL]), week 2 (FDGwk2and FLTwk2), and week 4 (FDGwk4and FLTwk4) of chemoradiation therapy. Tumor responses were categorized as complete or partial responses or stable or progressive disease (SD, PD) using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer criteria. Associations between response, OS, and PFS were analyzed with univariate Cox regressions and plotted using Kaplan-Meier curves.RESULTS: Between 2009 and 2013, 60 patients were recruited. Thirty-seven (62%) were male, and the median age was 66\xc2\xa0years (range, 31-86\xc2\xa0years). Two-year OS and PFS were 0.51 and 0.26, respectively. Unexpectedly, SD on FLTwk2compared with complete response/partial response was associated with longer OS (hazard ratio [95% confidence interval] 2.01 [0.87-4.65], P=.082) and PFS (2.01 [0.92-4.36], P=.061). Weeks 2 and 4 FDG PET/CT were not significantly associated with survival. Study scans provided additional information to FDGBLin 21 patients (35%). Distant metastases detected in 3 patients on FLTBLand in 2 patients on FDG/FLTwk2changed treatment intent from curative to palliative. Locoregional progression during radiation therapy was observed in 5 (8%) patients, prompting larger radiation therapy fields.CONCLUSIONS: Stable uptake of18F-FLT at week 2 was paradoxically associated with longer OS and PFS. This suggests that suppression of tumor cell proliferation may protect against radiation-induced tumor cell killing. Baseline FLT, FLTwk2, and FDGwk2detected rapid distant and locoregional progression in 10 patients (17%), prompting changes in management. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carboplatin#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Proliferation#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Etoposide#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Radiopharmaceuticals#Survival Analysis#Thymidine'
b'Triple-negative breast cancer is a kind of breast cancer with poor prognosis and special biological behavior, which lacked endocrine therapy and targeted therapy. We investigate the effect of human APE1 (apurinic/apyrimidyl endonuclease 1), a rate-limiting enzyme of base excision repair, on the prognosis in triple-negative breast cancer and drug sensitivity of olaparib. The expression of APE1 was detected by immunohistochemistry in the triple-negative breast cancer tissues and its effect on survival of triple-negative breast cancer patients was followed. To find whether APE1 effect the drug sensitivity in triple-negative breast cancer cells, the APE1-knockout HCC1937 cell line (triple-negative breast cancer cell line) was established by CRISPR/Cas9 system. Then, we use the wild-type and knockout one to test the drug sensitivity of olaparib. The expression of APE1 in triple-negative breast cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in the adjacent tissues (85.6% vs 14.4%) and its expression was related to tumor size (p<0.05). We also found that it is an independent prognostic factor in patients with triple-negative breast cancer (overall survival, p = 0.01). In vitro assay, the half maximal inhibitory concentration of olaparib in HCC1937-APE1-KO was significantly increased (17.22 vs 91.85 \xce\xbcM) compared to the wild type. The growth curve showed that olaparib had a stronger lethality on HCC1937 compared to HCC1937- APE1-KO (p<0.05 on day 3). HCC1937 resulted in more mitotic G2/M arrest and increased apoptosis rate after treatment with 40 \xce\xbcM of olaparib, while HCC1937-APE1-KO did not change significantly. When HCC1937 was treated with different concentrations of olaparib, it was found that APE1 expression decreased more significantly at 15 \xce\xbcM of olaparib was. In HCC1937-APE1-KO, the expression of endogenous poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 was also less than that of HCC1937. These results suggested that the expression of APE1 was an important basis for the maintenance of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1, and the deletion of APE1 may be related to the resistance of olaparib. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#DNA-(Apurinic or Apyrimidinic Site) Lyase#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Flow Cytometry#Gene Knockout Techniques#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Middle Aged#Phthalazines#Piperazines#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#Tissue Array Analysis#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms'
b"Before the 2010 devastating earthquake and cholera outbreak, Haiti's public health laboratory systems were weak and services were limited. There was no national laboratory strategic plan and only minimal coordination across the laboratory network. Laboratory capacity was further weakened by the destruction of over 25 laboratories and testing sites at the departmental and peripheral levels and the loss of life among the laboratory health-care workers. However, since 2010, tremendous progress has been made in building stronger laboratory infrastructure and training a qualified public health laboratory workforce across the country, allowing for decentralization of access to quality-assured services. Major achievements include development and implementation of a national laboratory strategic plan with a formalized and strengthened laboratory network; introduction of automation of testing to ensure better quality of results and diversify the menu of tests to effectively respond to outbreaks; expansion of molecular testing for tuberculosis, human immunodeficiency virus, malaria, diarrheal and respiratory diseases; establishment of laboratory-based surveillance of epidemic-prone diseases; and improvement of the overall quality of testing. Nonetheless, the progress and gains made remain fragile and require the full ownership and continuous investment from the Haitian government to sustain these successes and achievements. labels: #Cholera#Clinical Laboratory Services#Disasters#Dysentery#Earthquakes#Epidemics#HIV Infections#Haiti#Humans#Laboratories#Malaria#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Public Health#Tuberculosis"
b'Consumption of drinking water from private vendors has increased considerably in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, in recent decades. A major type of vendor is private kiosks, advertising reverse osmosis-treated water for sale by volume. To describe the scale and geographical distribution of private kiosks in metropolitan Port-au-Prince, an inventory of private kiosks was conducted from July to August 2013. Coordinates of kiosks were recorded with global positioning system units and a brief questionnaire was administered with the operator to document key kiosk characteristics. To assess the quality of water originating from private kiosks, water quality analyses were also conducted on a sample of those inventoried as well as from the major provider company sites. The parameters tested wereEscherichia coli, free chlorine residual, pH, turbidity, and total dissolved solids. More than 1,300 kiosks were inventoried, the majority of which were franchises of four large provider companies. Approximately half of kiosks reported opening within 12 months of the date of the inventory. The kiosk treatment chain and sales price was consistent among a majority of the kiosks. Of the 757 kiosks sampled for water quality, 90.9% of samples met World Health Organization (WHO) microbiological guideline at the point of sale for nondetectableE. coliin a 100-mL sample. Of the eight provider company sites tested, all samples met the WHO microbiological guideline. Because of the increasing role of the private sector in drinking water provision in Port-au-Prince and elsewhere in Haiti, this assessment was an important first step for government regulation of this sector. labels: #Chlorine#Commerce#Disasters#Drinking Water#Earthquakes#Escherichia coli#Haiti#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Private Sector#Water Quality'
b'Following the 2010 earthquake, Haiti was at heightened risk for vaccine-preventable diseases (VPDs) outbreaks due to the exacerbation of long-standing gaps in the vaccination program and subsequent risk of VPD importation from other countries. Therefore, partners supported the Haitian Ministry of Health and Population to improve vaccination services and VPD surveillance. During 2010-2016, three polio, measles, and rubella vaccination campaigns were implemented, achieving a coverage>90% among children and maintaining Haiti free of those VPDs. Furthermore, Haiti is on course to eliminate maternal and neonatal tetanus, with 70% of communes achieving tetanus vaccine two-dose coverage>80% among women of childbearing age. In addition, the vaccine cold chain storage capacity increased by 91% at the central level and 285% at the department level, enabling the introduction of three new vaccines (pentavalent, rotavirus, and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines) that could prevent an estimated 5,227 deaths annually. Haiti moved from the fourth worst performing country in the Americas in 2012 to the sixth best performing country in 2015 for adequate investigation of suspected measles/rubella cases. Sentinel surveillance sites for rotavirus diarrhea and meningococcal meningitis were established to estimate baseline rates of those diseases prior to vaccine introduction and to evaluate the impact of vaccination in the future. In conclusion, Haiti significantly improved vaccination services and VPD surveillance. However, high dependence on external funding and competing vaccination program priorities are potential threats to sustaining the improvements achieved thus far. Political commitment and favorable economic and legal environments are needed to maintain these gains. labels: #Drug Storage#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Humans#Immunization Programs#Measles#Measles Vaccine#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Pneumococcal Infections#Pneumococcal Vaccines#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus Vaccines#Rotavirus Infections#Rotavirus Vaccines#Rubella#Rubella Vaccine#Sentinel Surveillance#Tetanus#Tetanus Toxoid'
b'Monitoring retention of people living with HIV (PLHIV) in the HIV care and treatment cascade is essential to guide program strategy and evaluate progress toward globally-endorsed 90-90-90 targets (i.e., 90% of PLHIV diagnosed, 81% on sustained antiretroviral therapy (ART), and 73% virally suppressed). We describe national retention from diagnosis throughout the cascade for patients receiving HIV services in Haiti during 1985-2015, with a focus on those receiving HIV services during 2008-2015. Among the 266,256 newly diagnosed PLHIV during 1985-2015, 49% were linked-to-care, 30% started ART, and 18% were retained on ART by the time of database closure. Similarly, among the 192,187 newly diagnosed HIV-positive patients during 2008-2015, 50% were linked to care, 31% started ART, and 19% were retained on ART by the time of database closure. Most patients (90-92%) at all cascade steps were adults (\xe2\x89\xa5 15 years old), among whom the majority (60-61%) were female. During 2008-2015, outcomes varied significantly across 42 administrative districts (arrondissements) of residence; cumulative linkage-to-care ranged from 23% to 69%, cumulative ART initiation among care enrollees ranged from 2% to 80%, and cumulative ART retention among ART enrollees ranged from 30% to 88%. Compared with adults, children had lower cumulative incidence of ART initiation among care enrollees (64% versus 47%) and lower cumulative retention among ART enrollees (64% versus 50%). Cumulative linkage-to-care was low and should be prioritized for improvement. Variations in outcomes by arrondissement and between adults and children require further investigation and programmatic response. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anti-HIV Agents#Antiretroviral Therapy, Highly Active#CD4 Lymphocyte Count#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Management#Female#HIV Infections#Haiti#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Patient Compliance#Young Adult'
b"Emergencies can often directly impact health systems of an affected region or country, especially in resource-constrained areas. Health system recovery following an emergency is a complex and dynamic process. Health system recovery efforts have often been structured around the World Health Organization's health systems building blocks as demonstrated by the Post-Disaster Needs Assessment. Although this structure is valuable and well known, it can overlook the intricacies of public health systems. We retrospectively examine public health systems recovery, a subset of the larger health system, following the 2010 Haiti earthquake and cholera outbreak, through the lens of the 10 essential public health services. This framework illustrates the comprehensive nature of and helps categorize the activities necessary for a well-functioning public health system and can complement other assessments. Outlining the features of a public health system for recovery in structured manner can also help lay the foundation for sustainable long-term development leading to a more robust and resilient health system. labels: #Cholera#Delivery of Health Care#Disaster Planning#Disasters#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Emergencies#Haiti#Humans#Public Health#Public Health Systems Research#Retrospective Studies#World Health Organization"
b'Haiti is committed to malaria elimination by 2020. Following a 2010 earthquake and cholera epidemic, Haiti capitalized on investments in its health system to refocus on malaria elimination. Efforts, including expanding diagnostics, ensuring efficacy of standard treatments, building institutional capacity, and strengthening surveillance were undertaken to complement the broad health system strengthening activities. These efforts led to the adoption and scale-up of malaria rapid diagnostic tests as a diagnostic modality. In addition, drug-resistant monitoring has been established in the country, along with the development of molecular testing capacity for thePlasmodium falciparumparasite at the National Public Health Laboratory. The development and piloting of surveillance activities to include an enhanced community-based approach for testing and treatment of patients has increased the ability of the Ministry of Health to map foci of transmission and respond promptly to outbreaks. The reinforcement of evidence-based approaches coupled with strong collaboration among the Ministry of Health and partners has demonstrated that malaria elimination by 2020 is a realistic prospect. labels: #Antimalarials#Chloroquine#Cholera#Disasters#Disease Eradication#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Health Priorities#Humans#Malaria, Falciparum#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Public Health Surveillance'
b"Haiti's health system has faced many challenges over the years, with competing health priorities in the context of chronic financial and human resource limitations. As a result, the existing notifiable disease surveillance system was unable to provide the most basic epidemiologic data for public health decision-making and action. In the wake of the January 2010 earthquake, the Haitian Ministry of Public Health and Population collaborated with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Pan American Health Organization, and other local and international partners to implement a functional national surveillance system. More than 7 years later, it is important to take the opportunity to reflect on progress made on surveillance and response in Haiti, including disease detection, reporting, outbreak investigation, and response. The national epidemiologic surveillance network that started with 51 sites in 2010 has been expanded to 357 sites as of December 2015. Disease outbreaks identified via the surveillance system, or other surveillance approaches, are investigated by epidemiologists trained by the Ministry of Health's Field Epidemiology Training Program. Other related surveillance modules have been developed on the same model and electronic platform, allowing the country to document the impact of interventions, track progress, and monitor health problems. Sustainability remains the greatest challenge since most of the funding for surveillance come from external sources. labels: #Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Disasters#Disease Notification#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Health Priorities#Humans#International Cooperation#Public Health#United States"
b"The devastating 2010 cholera epidemic in Haiti prompted the government to introduce oral cholera vaccine (OCV) in two high-risk areas of Haiti. We evaluated the direct costs associated with the government's first vaccine campaign implemented in August-September 2013. We analyzed data for major cost categories and assessed the efficiency of available campaign resources to vaccinate the target population. For a target population of 107,906 persons, campaign costs totaled $624,000 and 215,295 OCV doses were dispensed. The total vaccine and operational cost was $2.90 per dose; vaccine alone cost $1.85 per dose, vaccine delivery and administration $0.70 per dose, and vaccine storage and transport $0.35 per dose. Resources were greater than needed-our analyses suggested that approximately 2.5-6 times as many persons could have been vaccinated during this campaign without increasing the resources allocated for vaccine delivery and administration. These results can inform future OCV campaigns in Haiti. labels: #Administration, Oral#Cholera#Cholera Vaccines#Costs and Cost Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Government Programs#Haiti#Humans#Immunization Programs"
b"Haiti, a Caribbean country of 10.5 million people, is estimated to have the highest burden of canine-mediated human rabies deaths in the Western Hemisphere, and one of the highest rates of human rabies deaths in the world. Haiti is also the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and has numerous economic and health priorities that compete for rabies-control resources. As a result, primary rabies-control actions, including canine vaccination programs, surveillance systems for human and animal rabies, and appropriate postbite treatment, have not been fully implemented at a national scale. After the 2010 earthquake that further hindered the development of public health program infrastructure and services, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention worked with the Ministry of Public Health and Population and key health development partners (including the Pan-American Health Organization) to provide technical expertise and funding for general disease surveillance systems, laboratory capacity, and selected disease control programs; including rabies. In 2011, a cross-ministerial rabies consortium was convened with participation from multiple international rabies experts to develop a strategy for successful rabies control in Haiti. The consortium focused on seven pillars: 1) enhancement of laboratory diagnostic capacity, 2) development of comprehensive animal surveillance system, 3) development of comprehensive human rabies surveillance system, 4) educational outreach, 5) sustainable human rabies biologics supply, 6) achievement of sustained canine vaccination rates of \xe2\x89\xa5 70%, and 7) finalization of a national rabies control strategy. From 2010 until 2015, Haiti has seen improvements in the program infrastructure for canine rabies control. The greatest improvements were seen in the area of animal rabies surveillance, in support of which an internationally recognized rabies laboratory was developed thereby leading to an 18-fold increase in the detection of rabid animals. Canine rabies vaccination practices also improved, from a 2010 level of approximately 12% to a 2015 dog population coverage level estimated to be 45%. Rabies vaccine coverage is still below the goal of 70%, however, the positive trend is encouraging. Gaps exist in the capacity to conduct national surveillance for human rabies cases and access to human rabies vaccine is lacking in many parts of the country. However, control has improved over the past 5 years as a result of the efforts of Haiti's health and agriculture sectors with assistance from multiple international organizations. Haiti is well situated to eliminate canine-mediated human rabies deaths in the near future and should serve as a great example to many developing countries struggling with similar barriers and limitations. labels: #Animals#Developing Countries#Disease Eradication#Disease Vectors#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Haiti#Humans#International Cooperation#Public Health Surveillance#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines"
b'Research provides the essential foundation of disease elimination programs, including the global program to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (GPELF). The development and validation of new diagnostic tools and intervention strategies, critical steps in the evolution of GPELF, required a global effort. Lymphatic filariasis research in Haiti involved many partners and was directly linked to the development of the national elimination program and to the success achieved to date. Ongoing research efforts involving many partners will continue to be important in resolving the challenges faced by the program today in its final efforts to achieve elimination. labels: #Diethylcarbamazine#Disease Eradication#Elephantiasis, Filarial#Filaricides#Haiti#Humans#Lymphedema'
b'Since the 2010 earthquake, tuberculosis (TB) control has been a major priority for health sector response and recovery efforts in Haiti. The goal of this study was to analyze trends in TB case notification in Haiti from the aggregate data reported by the National TB Control Program to understand the effects of such efforts. A total of 95,745 TB patients were registered for treatment in Haiti between 2010 and 2015. Three regions, the West, Artibonite, and North departments accounted for 68% of the TB cases notified during the period. Patients in the 15-34 age groups represented 53% (50,560) of all cases. Case notification rates of all forms of TB increased from 142.7/100,000 in 2010 to 153.4 in 2015, peaking at 163.4 cases/100,000 in 2013. Case notification for smear-positive pulmonary TB increased from 85.5 cases/100,000 to 105.7 cases/100,000, whereas treatment success rates remained stable at 79-80% during the period. Active TB case finding efforts in high-risk communities and the introduction of new diagnostics have contributed to increasing TB case notification trends in Haiti from 2010 to 2015. Targeted interventions and novel strategies are being implemented to reach high-risk populations and underserved communities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antitubercular Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Community Health Workers#Directly Observed Therapy#Disease Notification#Female#Haiti#Health Facilities#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Middle Aged#Treatment Outcome#Tuberculosis#Young Adult'
b'The objective of the study was to address some important questions related to prostate cancer treatments and survivorship. One of possibility to improve the survival probability of prostate cancer patients is to improve predictive strategies. Therefore in this article was created short-term multistep ahead predictive model for survival probability prediction of prostate cancer patients. Neuro-fuzzy model was used to select the most important inputs for the predictive model. As the inputs, current and time lagged variables were used. The results could be useful for simplification of predictive models to avoid multiple inputs. labels: #Decision Support Techniques#Fuzzy Logic#Humans#Male#Models, Statistical#Predictive Value of Tests#Probability#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk Factors#Survival Analysis#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'The oncoplastic approach to breast conservation therapy has become a useful and popular option for women with breast cancer who wish to preserve their breast. The initial driving forces were aimed at minimizing the potential for a breast conservation therapy deformity; however, various other benefits have been identified that include broadening the indications for breast conservation therapy in some patients and improved margin control. The various techniques can be categorized into glandular rearrangement techniques such as breast reductions usually in patients with larger breasts or flap reconstruction such as the latissimus dorsi muscle usually in patients with smaller breasts. As the acceptance continues to increase, we are starting to see more outcomes evidence in terms of patient satisfaction, quality of life, complications, and recurrence, to further support the safety and efficacy of the oncoplastic approach. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mastectomy, Segmental#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Patient Satisfaction#Quality of Life'
b"BACKGROUND: The care of kidney transplant recipients involves a balance between maximizing graft survival and serious adverse outcomes. This study aimed to quantify patients' preferences and trade-offs for important outcomes after transplantation.METHODS: A best-worst scaling survey, analyzed by multinomial-logit models, was used to calculate normalized preference scores (0, best; 1, worst), for varying years of graft duration and risk of dying before graft failure, cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, infection, anxiety/depression, diarrhoea/nausea, and weight gain. Willingness to trade years of graft survival to minimize the risk of adverse outcomes was calculated.RESULTS: Ninety-three transplant recipients from 2 Australian transplant units and an on-line panel (aged 18-69 years (mean time since transplantation, 7 years) completed the survey. Graft loss at 1 year was the least desirable outcome (mean preference value, 0.0:95% confidence intervals, -0.05 to 0.05) and worse than a 100% risk of dying before graft loss (0.17: 0.12-0.23). Graft duration of 5 years had the same preference scores (ie, as bad) as the maximum risk of all adverse outcomes including a 100% risk of dying before graft failure. To achieve zero risk of cancer, dying, and cardiovascular disease participants were only willing to trade 3.1(2.1 to 4.7), 1.7(1.1 to 2.5), and 1.2(0.8 to 1.8) years of graft survival, respectively, and less than 1 year for all other outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: Transplant recipients regarded graft loss as worse than death and showed minimal willingness to trade a reduction in this outcome with an improvement in any other outcome. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cause of Death#Graft Rejection#Graft Survival#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Kidney Transplantation#Logistic Models#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasms#New South Wales#Odds Ratio#Patient Preference#Postoperative Complications#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Many strategies regarding timing of native nephrectomies exist for patients with symptomatic polycystic kidney disease (PCKD).METHODS: This is a single-center, retrospective study of 594 adults with PCKD who had renal transplants from 1994 to 2014. Three groups were analyzed: renal transplant-only recipients (tx alone), recipients of simultaneous bilateral nephrectomies and transplant (simultaneous), and recipients with pretransplant bilateral nephrectomies (pre). The primary outcome was graft survival. Secondary outcomes included postoperative complications.RESULTS: Five hundred sixty-five adults with PCKD received kidney transplants (303 tx alone, 161 simultaneous, 27 pre). Ten-year posttransplant graft survival was 68.5%, 63.6%, and 65.7% for tx alone, simultaneous, and precohorts (P = 0.86). No statistically significant differences were observed in rates of postoperative ileus, deep vein thrombosis, small bowel obstruction, urinary stricture, urine leak, hernia formation, and delayed graft function. More wound complications were seen in prepatients (25.9% vs 11.1% tx alone, 5.1% simultaneous; P = 0.03), whereas simultaneous patients had a lower incidence of lymphocele (1.3% vs 11.1% pre, 10.2% tx-alone; P = 0.002). Importantly, simultaneous patients had more renal vascular thromboses (4.4% vs 1.3% tx alone, 0% pre; P = 0.04). 16.3% of renal transplant alone patients required nephrectomy at 10 years follow-up. Twenty-nine patients were referred for transplant having had nephrectomies and were ultimately not transplanted. In 4 of these patients who had data available for analysis, the mean panel-reactive antibody significantly increased after nephrectomy was performed.CONCLUSIONS: Simultaneous bilateral nephrectomy can be safely performed at the time of renal transplantation, however, carries a significantly increased risk of renal vascular thrombosis. labels: #Female#Graft Survival#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrectomy#Polycystic Kidney Diseases#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Time-to-Treatment#Treatment Outcome#Wisconsin'
b"Trial of labor after cesarean delivery (TOLAC) refers to a planned attempt to deliver vaginally by a woman who has had a previous cesarean delivery, regardless of the outcome. This method provides women who desire a vaginal delivery the possibility of achieving that goal-a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery (VBAC). In addition to fulfilling a patient's preference for vaginal delivery, at an individual level, VBAC is associated with decreased maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies as well as a decrease in the overall cesarean delivery rate at the population level (1-3). However, although TOLAC is appropriate for many women, several factors increase the likelihood of a failed trial of labor, which in turn is associated with increased maternal and perinatal morbidity when compared with a successful trial of labor (ie, VBAC) and elective repeat cesarean delivery (4-6). Therefore, assessing the likelihood of VBAC as well as the individual risks is important when determining who is an appropriate candidate for TOLAC. Thus, the purpose of this document is to review the risks and benefits of TOLAC in various clinical situations and to provide practical guidelines for counseling and management of patients who will attempt to give birth vaginally after a previous cesarean delivery. labels: #Female#Humans#Pregnancy#Trial of Labor#Vaginal Birth after Cesarean"
b'Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a common, benign condition in women. For many women it can cause vaginal bulge and pressure, voiding dysfunction, defecatory dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, which may adversely affect qual-ity of life. Women in the United States have a 13% lifetime risk of undergoing surgery for POP (1). Although POP can occur in younger women, the peak incidence of POP symptoms is in women aged 70-79 years (2). Given the aging population in the United States, it is anticipated that by 2050 the number of women experiencing POP will increase by approximately 50% (3). The purpose of this joint document of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Urogynecologic Society is to review information on the current understanding of POP in women and to outline guidelines for diagnosis and management that are consistent with the best available scientific evidence. labels: #Female#Humans#Pelvic Organ Prolapse'
b'Intrauterine devices and contraceptive implants, also called long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARC), are the most effective reversible contraceptive methods. The major advantage of LARC compared with other reversible contraceptive methods is that they do not require ongoing effort on the part of the patient for long-term and effective use. In addition, after the device is removed, the return of fertility is rapid (1, 2). The purpose of this Practice Bulletin is to provide information for appropriate patient selection and evidence-based recommendations for LARC initiation and management. The management of clinical challenges associated with LARC use is beyond the scope of this document and is addressed in Committee Opinion No. 672, Clinical Challenges of Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptive Methods (3). labels: #Contraceptive Agents, Female#Drug Implants#Female#Humans#Intrauterine Devices'
b"With the increased emphasis on patient-driven health care and readily available access to patients through the internet and media, many genetic testing companies have begun to market directly to consumers. Direct-to-consumer genetic testing raises unique concerns and considerations, including limited knowledge among patients and health care providers of available genetic tests, difficulty in interpretation of genetic test results, lack of oversight of companies that offer genetic testing, and issues of privacy and confidentiality. When undergoing any direct-to-consumer genetic testing, the consumer should be apprised of risk from screening or susceptibility test results that can neither prove nor eliminate disease potential. Because ordering an appropriate genetic test and interpretation of genetic test results are complex, an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider with knowledge of genetics should be involved in ordering and interpreting the results of any genetic test with medical implications. When an individual presents test results to a health care provider from a direct-to-consumer genomic test that putatively assesses the risk of specific diseases, the patient should be referred to an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider who is skilled in risk assessment for the diseases of interest and interpretation of genetic testing results in the context of the individual's relevant medical and family history. Because of these considerations and in view of the fact that the interpretation of the results requires specific training and medical knowledge, direct-to-consumer genetic testing should be discouraged because of the potential harm of a misinterpreted or inaccurate result. labels: #Direct-To-Consumer Screening and Testing#Genetic Testing#Humans"
b'Vaginal seeding refers to the practice of inoculating a cotton gauze or a cotton swab with vaginal fluids to transfer the vaginal flora to the mouth, nose, or skin of a newborn infant. The intended purpose of vaginal seeding is to transfer maternal vaginal bacteria to the newborn. As the increase in the frequency of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders mirrors the increase in the rate of cesarean delivery, the theory of vaginal seeding is to allow for proper colonization of the fetal gut and, therefore, reduce the subsequent risk of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders. At this time, vaginal seeding should not be performed outside the context of an institutional review board-approved research protocol until adequate data regarding the safety and benefit of the process become available. labels: #Biological Therapy#Dysbiosis#Humans#Infant, Newborn'
b'Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a common, benign condition in women. For many women it can cause vaginal bulge and pressure, voiding dysfunction, defecatory dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, which may adversely affect qual-ity of life. Women in the United States have a 13% lifetime risk of undergoing surgery for POP (1). Although POP can occur in younger women, the peak incidence of POP symptoms is in women aged 70-79 years (2). Given the aging population in the United States, it is anticipated that by 2050 the number of women experiencing POP will increase by approximately 50% (3). The purpose of this joint document of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Urogynecologic Society is to review information on the current understanding of POP in women and to outline guidelines for diagnosis and management that are consistent with the best available scientific evidence. labels: #Female#Gynecologic Surgical Procedures#Humans#Pelvic Organ Prolapse#Pessaries'
b"Trial of labor after cesarean delivery (TOLAC) refers to a planned attempt to deliver vaginally by a woman who has had a previous cesarean delivery, regardless of the outcome. This method provides women who desire a vaginal delivery the possibility of achieving that goal-a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery (VBAC). In addition to fulfilling a patient's preference for vaginal delivery, at an individual level, VBAC is associated with decreased maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies as well as a decrease in the overall cesarean delivery rate at the population level (1-3). However, although TOLAC is appropriate for many women, several factors increase the likelihood of a failed trial of labor, which in turn is associated with increased maternal and perinatal morbidity when compared with a successful trial of labor (ie, VBAC) and elective repeat cesarean delivery (4-6). Therefore, assessing the likelihood of VBAC as well as the individual risks is important when determining who is an appropriate candidate for TOLAC. Thus, the purpose of this document is to review the risks and benefits of TOLAC in various clinical situations and to provide practical guidelines for counseling and management of patients who will attempt to give birth vaginally after a previous cesarean delivery. labels: #Contraindications#Female#Humans#Misoprostol#Oxytocics#Pregnancy#Trial of Labor#Vaginal Birth after Cesarean"
b'Intrauterine devices and contraceptive implants, also called long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARC), are the most effective reversible contraceptive methods. The major advantage of LARC compared with other reversible contraceptive methods is that they do not require ongoing effort on the part of the patient for long-term and effective use. In addition, after the device is removed, the return of fertility is rapid (1, 2). The purpose of this Practice Bulletin is to provide information for appropriate patient selection and evidence-based recommendations for LARC initiation and management. The management of clinical challenges associated with LARC use is beyond the scope of this document and is addressed in Committee Opinion No. 672, Clinical Challenges of Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptive Methods (3). labels: #Contraceptive Agents, Female#Drug Implants#Female#Humans#Intrauterine Devices'
b"With the increased emphasis on patient-driven health care and readily available access to patients through the internet and media, many genetic testing companies have begun to market directly to consumers. Direct-to-consumer genetic testing raises unique concerns and considerations, including limited knowledge among patients and health care providers of available genetic tests, difficulty in interpretation of genetic test results, lack of oversight of companies that offer genetic testing, and issues of privacy and confidentiality. When undergoing any direct-to-consumer genetic testing, the consumer should be apprised of risk from screening or susceptibility test results that can neither prove nor eliminate disease potential. Because ordering an appropriate genetic test and interpretation of genetic test results are complex, an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider with knowledge of genetics should be involved in ordering and interpreting the results of any genetic test with medical implications. When an individual presents test results to a health care provider from a direct-to-consumer genomic test that putatively assesses the risk of specific diseases, the patient should be referred to an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider who is skilled in risk assessment for the diseases of interest and interpretation of genetic testing results in the context of the individual's relevant medical and family history. Because of these considerations and in view of the fact that the interpretation of the results requires specific training and medical knowledge, direct-to-consumer genetic testing should be discouraged because of the potential harm of a misinterpreted or inaccurate result. labels: #Direct-To-Consumer Screening and Testing#Genetic Testing#Humans"
b'Vaginal seeding refers to the practice of inoculating a cotton gauze or a cotton swab with vaginal fluids to transfer the vaginal flora to the mouth, nose, or skin of a newborn infant. The intended purpose of vaginal seeding is to transfer maternal vaginal bacteria to the newborn. As the increase in the frequency of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders mirrors the increase in the rate of cesarean delivery, the theory of vaginal seeding is to allow for proper colonization of the fetal gut and, therefore, reduce the subsequent risk of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders. At this time, vaginal seeding should not be performed outside the context of an institutional review board-approved research protocol until adequate data regarding the safety and benefit of the process become available. labels: #Asthma#Biological Therapy#Cesarean Section#Dysbiosis#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Microbiota#Pregnancy#Vagina'
b"BACKGROUND: Men are a growing patient population in aesthetic medicine and are increasingly seeking minimally invasive cosmetic procedures.OBJECTIVE: To examine differences in the timing of facial aging and in the prevalence of preventive facial aging behaviors in men by race/ethnicity.METHODS: Men aged 18 to 75 years in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia rated their features using photonumeric rating scales for 10 facial aging characteristics. Impact of race/ethnicity (Caucasian, black, Asian, Hispanic) on severity of each feature was assessed. Subjects also reported the frequency of dermatologic facial product use.RESULTS: The study included 819 men. Glabellar lines, crow's feet lines, and nasolabial folds showed the greatest change with age. Caucasian men reported more severe signs of aging and earlier onset, by 10 to 20 years, compared with Asian, Hispanic, and, particularly, black men. In all racial/ethnic groups, most men did not regularly engage in basic, antiaging preventive behaviors, such as use of sunscreen.CONCLUSION: Findings from this study conducted in a globally diverse sample may guide clinical discussions with men about the prevention and treatment of signs of facial aging, to help men of all races/ethnicities achieve their desired aesthetic outcomes. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Continental Population Groups#Cross-Sectional Studies#Esthetics#Face#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Photography#Skin Aging#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: Males are increasingly seeking minimally invasive cosmetic procedures such as botulinum toxin injection. However, few studies have specifically examined the efficacy of such procedures among men.OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of incobotulinumtoxinA for treating glabellar frown lines (GFLs) in men.METHODS: Three incobotulinumtoxinA studies were included in post hoc analyses of responder rates: 2 pivotal Phase 3 US registration studies for GFLs (n = 55 males in a pooled analysis) and a European pivotal Phase 3 study for upper facial lines (UFLs; n = 21 males).RESULTS: In the pooled analysis of Phase 3 GFL studies, 55.9% of males and 81.4% of females were responders on the Facial Wrinkle Scale (FWS) at 30 days. Similarly, 54.5% and 88.0% of males and females, respectively, treated for GFLs in the upper facial line study were responders on the Merz Aesthetics Scales (MAS) at 30 days. Lower proportions of male responders on the Facial Wrinkle Scale /Merz Aesthetics Scales were consistent with results from onabotulinumtoxinA and abobotulinumtoxinA GFL studies.CONCLUSION: Compared with females, males demonstrate lower response rates on wrinkle severity scales in studies on all 3 available botulinum toxins. Variations in treatment response are potentially associated with key male anatomic differences (e.g., muscle mass). Results emphasize the need for customized treatment plans. labels: #Botulinum Toxins, Type A#Double-Blind Method#Female#Forehead#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neuromuscular Agents#Prospective Studies#Skin Aging#Treatment Outcome'
b'The Research in Medical Education (RIME) Program Planning Committee is committed to advancing scholarship in and promoting dialogue about the critical issues of racism and bias in health professions education (HPE). From the call for studies focused on underrepresented learners and faculty in medicine to the invited 2016 RIME plenary address by Dr. Camara Jones, the committee strongly believes that dismantling racism is critical to the future of HPE.The evidence is glaring: Dramatic racial and ethnic health disparities persist in the United States, people of color remain deeply underrepresented in medical school and academic health systems as faculty, learner experiences across the medical education continuum are fraught with bias, and current approaches to teaching perpetuate stereotypes and insufficiently challenge structural inequities. To achieve racial justice in HPE, academic medicine must commit to leveraging positions of influence and contributing from these positions. In this Commentary, the authors consider three roles (educator, faculty developer, and researcher) represented by the community of scholars and pose potential research questions as well as suggestions for advancing educational research relevant to eliminating racism and bias in HPE. labels: #Academic Medical Centers#Curriculum#Education, Medical#Faculty, Medical#Health Occupations#Humans#Racism#Research Personnel'
b'PURPOSE: To examine validity evidence of local graduation competency examination scores from seven medical schools using shared cases and to provide rater training protocols and guidelines for scoring patient notes (PNs).METHOD: Between May and August 2016, clinical cases were developed, shared, and administered across seven medical schools (990 students participated). Raters were calibrated using training protocols, and guidelines were developed collaboratively across sites to standardize scoring. Data included scores from standardized patient encounters for history taking, physical examination, and PNs. Descriptive statistics were used to examine scores from the different assessment components. Generalizability studies (G-studies) using variance components were conducted to estimate reliability for composite scores.RESULTS: Validity evidence was collected for response process (rater perception), internal structure (variance components, reliability), relations to other variables (interassessment correlations), and consequences (composite score). Student performance varied by case and task. In the PNs, justification of differential diagnosis was the most discriminating task. G-studies showed that schools accounted for less than 1% of total variance; however, for the PNs, there were differences in scores for varying cases and tasks across schools, indicating a school effect. Composite score reliability was maximized when the PN was weighted between 30% and 40%. Raters preferred using case-specific scoring guidelines with clear point-scoring systems.CONCLUSIONS: This multisite study presents validity evidence for PN scores based on scoring rubric and case-specific scoring guidelines that offer rigor and feedback for learners. Variability in PN scores across participating sites may signal different approaches to teaching clinical reasoning among medical schools. labels: #Clinical Competence#Documentation#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Humans#Medical History Taking#Patient Simulation#Physical Examination#Reproducibility of Results#Schools, Medical'
b"PURPOSE: The Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine (HNSOM) uses an essay-based assessment system. Recognizing the emphasis graduate medical education places on the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step exams, the authors developed a method to predict students at risk for lower performance on USMLE Step 1.METHOD: Beginning with the inaugural class (2015), HNSOM administered National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) Customized Assessment Service (CAS) examinations as formative assessment at the end of each integrated course in the first two years of medical school. Using preadmission data, the first two courses in the educational program, and NBME score deviation from the national test takers' mean, a statistical model was built to predict students who scored below the Step 1 national mean.RESULTS: A regression equation using the highest Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) score and NBME score deviation predicted student Step 1 scores. The MCAT alone accounted for 21% of the variance. Adding the NBME score deviation from the first and second courses increased the variance to 40% and 50%, respectively. Adding NBME exams from later courses increased the variance to 52% and 64% by the end of years one and two, respectively. Cross-validation demonstrated the model successfully predicted 63% of at-risk students by the end of the fifth month of medical school.CONCLUSIONS: The model identified students at risk for lower performance on Step 1 using the NBME CAS. This model is applicable to schools reforming their curriculum delivery and assessment programs toward an integrated model. labels: #Adult#Clinical Competence#College Admission Test#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#Humans#Licensure, Medical#Male#Regression Analysis#Risk Assessment#Schools, Medical#United States"
b"PURPOSE: Compare the effect of personalized feedback (PF) vs. task demonstration (TD), both delivered via video, on laparoscopic knot-tying skills and perceived workload; and evaluate the effect of repeated practice.METHOD: General surgery interns and research fellows completed four repetitions of a simulated laparoscopic knot-tying task at one-month intervals. Midway between repetitions, participants received via e-mail either a TD video (demonstration by an expert) or a PF video (video of their own performance with voiceover from a blinded senior surgeon). Each participant received at least one video per format, with sequence randomly assigned. Outcomes included performance scores and NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX) scores. To evaluate the effectiveness of repeated practice, scores from these trainees on a separate delayed retention test were compared against historical controls who did not have scheduled repetitions.RESULTS: Twenty-one trainees completed the randomized study. Mean change in performance scores was significantly greater for those receiving PF (difference = 23.1 of 150 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0, 46.2], P = .05). Perceived workload was also significantly reduced (difference = -3.0 of 20 [95% CI: -5.8, -0.3], P = .04). Compared with historical controls (N = 93), the 21 with scheduled repeated practice had higher scores on the laparoscopic knot-tying assessment two weeks after the final repetition (difference = 1.5 of 10 [95% CI: 0.2, 2.8], P = .02).CONCLUSIONS: Personalized video feedback improves trainees' procedural performance and perceived workload compared with a task demonstration video. Brief monthly practice sessions support skill acquisition and retention. labels: #Clinical Competence#Formative Feedback#General Surgery#Humans#Laparoscopy#Practice (Psychology)#Suture Techniques#Video Recording#Workload"
b"PURPOSE: Capturing either lapses or excellence in behaviors related to medical professionalism is difficult. The authors report a mixed-methods analysis of a novel mobile platform for assessing medical professionalism in a training environment.METHOD: A mobile Web-based platform to facilitate professionalism assessment in a situated clinical setting (Professional Mobile Monitoring of Behaviors [PROMOBES]) was developed. A professionalism framework consisting of six domains (reliability, adaptability, peer relationships, upholding principles, team relationships, and scholarship) encompassing 25 subelements underpins the reporting structure. This pilot study involved 26 faculty supervising 93 medical trainees at two sites from January 12 to August 8, 2016. Notable professionalism behaviors were linked to the framework domains and elements; narrative details about incidences were captured on mobile devices. Surveys gauged the technological functionality and impact of PROMOBES on faculty assessment of professionalism. Qualitative focus groups were employed to elucidate user experience.RESULTS: Although users anticipated PROMOBES's utility would be for reporting lapses in professionalism, 94.7% of reports were for commendation. Comfort assessing professionalism (P = .04) and recognition of the reporting procedures for professionalism-related concerns (P = .01) improved. PROMOBES attained high acceptance ratings. Focus group analysis revealed that the explicit connection to the professionalism framework was powerful; similarly, the near real-time reporting capability, multiple observer inputs, and positive feedback facilitation were strengths.CONCLUSIONS: Making the professionalism framework visible and accessible via a mobile platform significantly strengthens faculty knowledge and behaviors regarding assessment. The strong desire to capture positive behaviors was an unexpected finding. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Clerkship#Education, Medical, Graduate#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Faculty, Medical#Female#Focus Groups#Formative Feedback#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Male#Middle Aged#Mobile Applications#Pediatrics#Pilot Projects#Professional Competence#Professionalism#Qualitative Research#Reproducibility of Results#Students, Medical"
b'PURPOSE: Learning to make decisions under uncertain conditions is a critical component of diagnostic and therapeutic reasoning. This study sought to determine treatment decisions medical students make when presented with different thresholds of diagnostic uncertainty and whether they appropriately adjust diagnostic probabilities with test information.METHOD: Two classes (2015, 2016) of fourth-year students (N = 342) were presented a patient with viral pneumonia and given 10%, 20%, or 50% pretest probabilities of that patient having a superimposed bacterial infection. Students decided to not treat, order a diagnostic test to guide management, or treat without testing based on these probabilities. The 2015 class was provided a posttest probability of 10% or 50% and asked to adjust their initial treatment decision.RESULTS: When given a low (10%) pretest probability, students were less likely to decide to treat (6%) and more likely to decide not to treat (36%). The percentage of students deciding to treat increased as the pretest probability of a superimposed infection increased from 10% to 50%, while the percentage of students not wanting to treat decreased. Interestingly, at 10%, 20%, and 50% pretest probability levels, most students were unable to decide and chose to order another test (57%, 67%, and 64%, respectively). When provided low and high posttest probabilities, students appropriately adjusted their decision making, but 29% to 32% still wanted additional testing.CONCLUSIONS: Students adjusted treatment decisions to reflect different levels of diagnostic uncertainty, but varied considerably in their individual thresholds to make decisions, possibly contributing to unnecessary testing. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Clinical Competence#Clinical Decision-Making#Cohort Studies#Coinfection#Evidence-Based Medicine#Humans#Influenza, Human#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Pneumonia, Viral#Probability#Random Allocation#Students, Medical'
b"PURPOSE: Physicians routinely transition responsibility for patient care to other physicians. When transitions of responsibility occur before the clinical outcome is known, physicians may lose opportunities to learn from the consequences of their decision making. Sometimes curiosity about patients does not end with the transition and physicians continue to follow them. This study explores physicians' motivations to follow up after transitioning responsibilities.METHOD: Using a constructivist grounded theory approach, the authors conducted 18 semistructured interviews in 2016 with internal medicine hospitalist and resident physicians at a single tertiary care academic medical center. Constant comparative methods guided the qualitative analysis, using motivation theories as sensitizing constructs.RESULTS: The authors identified themes that characterized participants' motivations to follow up. Curiosity about patients' outcomes determined whether or not follow-up occurred. Insufficient curiosity about predictable clinical problems resulted in the choice to forgo follow-up. Sufficient curiosity due to clinical uncertainty, personal attachment to patients, and/or concern for patient vulnerability motivated follow-up to fulfill goals of knowledge building and professionalism. The authors interpret these findings through the lenses of expectancy-value (EVT) and self-determination (SDT) theories of motivation.CONCLUSIONS: Participants' curiosity about what happened to their patients motivated them to follow up. EVT may explain how participants made choices in time-pressured work settings. SDT may help interpret how follow-up fulfills needs of relatedness. These findings add to a growing body of literature endorsing learning environments that consider task-value trade-offs and support basic psychological needs of autonomy, competency, and relatedness to motivate learning. labels: #Aftercare#Female#Grounded Theory#Hospitalists#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Male#Medical Staff, Hospital#Motivation#Patient Transfer#Qualitative Research"
b'PURPOSE: Patient continuity, described as the student participating in the provision of comprehensive care of patients over time, may offer particular opportunities for student learning. The aim of this study was to describe how students experience patient continuity and what they learn from it.METHOD: An interpretive phenomenological study was conducted between 2015 and 2016. Seventeen fourth-year medical students were interviewed following a longitudinal clinical placement and asked to describe their experiences of patient continuity and what they learned from each experience. Transcripts were analyzed by iteratively refining and testing codes, using health system definitions of patient continuity as sensitizing concepts to develop descriptive themes.RESULTS: Students described three different forms of patient continuity. Continuity of care, or relational continuity, enabled students to build trusting and professional relationships with their patients. Geographical continuity allowed students to access information about patients from electronic records and their preceptors which allowed students to achieve diagnostic closure and learn to reevaluate their decisions. Students valued the learning that accrued from following challenging patients and addressing challenging decisions over time. Although difficult, these patient continuity experiences led students to critical reflection that was both iterative and deep, leading to intentions for future behavior.CONCLUSIONS: Patient continuity in medical education does not depend solely on face-to-face continuity. Within various patient continuity experiences, following challenging patients and experiencing unanticipated diagnostic and management outcomes trigger critical reflection in students, leading to deep learning. labels: #Access to Information#Clinical Clerkship#Continuity of Patient Care#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Learning#Male#Physician-Patient Relations#Qualitative Research#Students, Medical'
b'PURPOSE: Health professionals are expected to routinely assess their weaknesses, set learning goals, and monitor their achievement. Unfortunately, it is well known that these professionals often struggle with effectively integrating external data and self-perceptions. To know how best to intervene, it is critical that the health professionals community understand the cues students and practitioners use to assess their abilities. Here the authors aimed to gain insights into how and why medical students set learning goals, monitor their progress, and demonstrate their learning.METHOD: In 2012, the authors conducted semistructured interviews with Year 2 students (n = 20), applying an inductive approach to data analysis by iteratively developing, refining, and testing coding structures.RESULTS: Themes were constructed through discussion and consensus: (1) Students were diverse in how they set learning goals, (2) they used a range of approaches to monitor their progress, and (3) they struggled to balance studying for exams with preparation for clinical training. Tensions observed highlight assumptions embedded in medical curricula that can be problematic.CONCLUSIONS: Educators often treat medical students as a cohesive whole, thereby creating a mismatch between assessments that are intended to be formative and information students use to monitor their progress. Despite limited exposure to clinical contexts, goal generation and monitoring often stem from a desire to prepare for clinical practice. In grappling with these tensions, it is important to be mindful that students are individualistic in how they balance their commitment to prepare for clinical work and the need to concentrate on exams. labels: #Achievement#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Goals#Humans#Qualitative Research#Self Concept#Students, Medical'
b'PURPOSE: To determine medical students\' study behaviors when preparing for the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 1, and how these behaviors are associated with Step 1 scores when controlling for likely covariates.METHOD: The authors distributed a study-behaviors survey in 2014 and 2015 at their institution to two cohorts of medical students who had recently taken Step 1. Demographic and academic data were linked to responses. Descriptive statistics, bivariate correlations, and multiple linear regression analyses were performed.RESULTS: Of 332 medical students, 274 (82.5%) participated. Most students (n = 211; 77.0%) began studying for Step 1 during their preclinical curriculum, increasing their intensity during a protected study period during which they averaged 11.0 hours studying per day (standard deviation [SD] 2.1) over a period of 35.3 days (SD 6.2). Students used numerous third-party resources, including reading an exam-specific 700-page review book on average 2.1 times (SD 0.8) and completing an average of 3,597 practice multiple-choice questions (SD 1,611). Initiating study prior to the designated study period, increased review book usage, and attempting more practice questions were all associated with higher Step 1 scores, even when controlling for Medical College Admission Test scores, preclinical exam performance, and self-identified score goal (adjusted R = 0.56, P<.001).CONCLUSIONS: Medical students at one public institution engaged in a self-directed, "parallel" Step 1 curriculum using third-party study resources. Several study behaviors were associated with improved USMLE Step 1 performance, informing both institutional- and student-directed preparation for this high-stakes exam. labels: #Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Educational Measurement#Humans#Licensure, Medical#Students, Medical#Test Taking Skills'
b"PURPOSE: To explore when and in what form pediatric faculty and residents practice reflection.METHOD: From February to June 2015, the authors conducted focus groups of pediatric faculty and residents at the University of California, Davis; Stanford University; and the University of California, San Francisco, until thematic saturation occurred. Transcripts were analyzed based on Mezirow's and Schon's models of reflection, using the constant comparative method associated with grounded theory. Two investigators independently coded transcripts and reconciled codes to develop themes. All investigators reviewed the codes and developed a final list of themes through consensus. Through iterative discussions, investigators developed a conceptual model of reflection in the clinical setting.RESULTS: Seventeen faculty and 20 residents from three institutions participated in six focus groups. Five themes emerged: triggers of reflection, intrinsic factors, extrinsic factors, timing, and outcome of reflection. Various triggers led to reflection; whether a specific trigger led to reflection depended on intrinsic and extrinsic factors. When reflection occurred, it happened in action or on action. Under optimal conditions, this reflection was goal and action directed and became critical reflection. In other instances, this process resulted in unproductive rumination or acted as an emotional release or supportive therapy.CONCLUSIONS: Participants reflected in clinical settings, but did not always explicitly identify it as reflection or reflect in growth-promoting ways. Strategies to enhance critical reflection include developing knowledge and skills in reflection, providing performance data to inform reflection, creating time and space for safe reflection, and providing mentorship to guide the process. labels: #Faculty, Medical#Female#Focus Groups#Grounded Theory#Humans#Internship and Residency#Male#Pediatrics#Qualitative Research"
b"PURPOSE: Without a proper understanding of conflict between health care professionals, designing effective conflict management training programs for trainees that reflect the complexity of the clinical working environment is difficult. To better inform the development of conflict management training, this study sought to explore health care professionals' experiences of conflicts and their characteristics.METHOD: Between 2014 and early 2016, 82 semistructured interviews were conducted with health care professionals directly involved in first-line patient care in four departments of the University Hospitals of Geneva. These professionals included residents, fellows, certified nursing assistants, nurses, and nurse supervisors. All interviews were transcribed verbatim, and conventional content analysis was used to derive conflict characteristics.RESULTS: Six conflict sources were identified. Among these sources, disagreements on patient care tended to be the primary trigger of conflict, whereas sources related to communication contributed to conflict escalation without directly triggering conflict. A framework of workplace conflict that integrates its multidimensional and cyclical nature was subsequently developed. This framework suggests that conflict consequences and responses are interrelated, and might generate further tensions that could affect health care professionals, teams, and organizations, as well as patient care. Findings also indicated that supervisors' responses to contentious situations often failed to meet health care professionals' expectations.CONCLUSIONS: Understanding conflicts between health care professionals involves several interrelated dimensions, such as sources, consequences, and responses to conflict. There is a need to strengthen health care professionals' ability to identify and respond to conflict and to further develop conflict management programs for clinical supervisors. labels: #Adult#Communication#Dissent and Disputes#Female#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Male#Medical Staff, Hospital#Middle Aged#Multilevel Analysis#Negotiating#Nurse Administrators#Nurses#Patient Care Team#Qualitative Research"
b'PURPOSE: To analyze educators\' experiences of facilitating cultural discussions in two global health professions education programs and what these experiences had taught them about critical consciousness.METHOD: A multicultural research team conducted in-depth interviews with 16 faculty who had extensive experience facilitating cultural discussions. They analyzed transcripts of the interviews thematically, drawing sensitizing insights from Gramsci\'s theory of cultural hegemony. Collaboration and conversation helped the team self-consciously examine their positions toward the data set and be critically reflexive.RESULTS: Participant faculty used their prior experience facilitating cultural discussions to create a "safe space" in which learners could develop critical consciousness. During multicultural interactions they recognized and explicitly addressed issues related to power differentials, racism, implicit bias, and gender bias. They noted the need to be "facile in attending to pain" as learners brought up traumatic experiences and other sensitive issues including racism and the impact of power dynamics. They built relationships with learners by juxtaposing and exploring the sometimes-conflicting norms of different cultures. Participants were reflective about their own understanding and tendency to be biased. They aimed to break free of such biases while role modeling how to have the courage to speak up.CONCLUSIONS: Experience had given facilitators in multicultural programs an understanding of their responsibility to promote critical consciousness and social justice. How faculty without prior experience or expertise could develop those values and skills is a topic for future research. labels: #Adult#Consciousness#Cultural Competency#Cultural Diversity#Faculty, Medical#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Power (Psychology)#Qualitative Research#Racism#Sexism#Social Justice#Thinking'
b'PURPOSE: The importance of confidence for learning and performance makes learners\' perceptions of readiness for the next level of training valuable indicators of curricular success. The "Readiness for Clerkship" (RfC) and "Readiness for Residency" (RfR) surveys have been shown to provide reliable ratings of the relative effectiveness of various aspects of training. This study examines the generalizability of those results.METHOD: Surveys were administered at four medical schools approximately four months after the start of clerkship and eight months after the start of residency during 2013-2015. Collected data were anonymized. A total of 647 medical students and 483 residents participated.RESULTS: Reliabilities of G = 0.8 could be obtained with only 6 to 12 medical students and 8 to 15 residents. Within MD programs, no meaningful differences in item ratings were observed across cohorts. Residents in each school consistently rated themselves higher than clerks on the majority of Medical Expert and Communicator competencies common to both surveys. Similar strengths and weaknesses were identified across programs, but differences were observed on five clerkship items and one residency item.CONCLUSIONS: Across four MD programs, the RfC and RfR surveys provided reliable ratings of the relative effectiveness of aspects of training with small numbers of respondents. The capacity of these surveys to efficiently identify perceived strengths and weaknesses held by cohorts of learners may, thereby, facilitate program improvement. labels: #Adult#Clinical Clerkship#Clinical Competence#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#Humans#Internship and Residency#Male#Program Evaluation#Self Concept#Students, Medical#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"PURPOSE: Entrustable professional activities (EPAs) have become a cornerstone of assessment in competency-based medical education (CBME). Increasingly, EPAs are being adopted that do not conform to EPA standards. This study aimed to develop and validate a scoring rubric to evaluate EPAs for alignment with their purpose, and to identify substandard EPAs.METHOD: The EQual rubric was developed and revised by a team of education scholars with expertise in EPAs. It was then applied by four residency program directors/CBME leads (PDs) and four nonclinician support staff to 31 stage-specific EPAs developed for internal medicine in the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada's Competency by Design framework. Results were analyzed using a generalizability study to evaluate overall reliability, with the EPAs as the object of measurement. Item-level analysis was performed to determine reliability and discrimination value for each item. Scores from the PDs were also compared with decisions about revisions made independently by the education scholars group.RESULTS: The EQual rubric demonstrated high reliability in the G-study with a phi-coefficient of 0.84 when applied by the PDs, and moderate reliability when applied by the support staff at 0.67. Item-level analysis identified three items that performed poorly with low item discrimination and low interrater reliability indices. Scores from support staff only moderately correlated with PDs. Using the preestablished cut score, PDs identified 9 of 10 EPAs deemed to require major revision.CONCLUSIONS: EQual rubric scores reliably measured alignment of EPAs with literature-described standards. Further, its application accurately identified EPAs requiring major revisions. labels: #Canada#Clinical Competence#Competency-Based Education#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Graduate#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Reproducibility of Results"
b'BACKGROUND: Current American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations regarding transition from child safety/booster seat to adult safety belt use indicate that children should be at least 4 feet 9 inches, 8 years old, or 80 pounds. Proper fit in the vehicle seat, assessed with a five-point fit test, should also be met. Although most children reach 4 feet 9 inches around age 8 years, each child and vehicle presents a unique combination; thus a child may not fit appropriately in all vehicle types using only the 4 feet 9 inches requirement.METHODS: We enrolled children, aged 7 years to 12 years, into our study. Height, weight, and demographic data were obtained. A Child Passenger Safety Technician then performed the five-point fit test in each of a uniform lineup of five vehicles. Data were collected on fit in the standard vehicle seat and also in a booster seat. We set 90% as the threshold proportion of children who meet all criteria for proper fit to validate current recommendations of a height of 4 feet 9 inches.RESULTS: Data were collected on 388 children. The percentage of 90% proper fit was met in the compact car and small sport-utility vehicle (SUV). However, only 80 (77%) of 104 students (p<0.0001) that were 4 feet 9 inches or higher fit properly in the large SUV, only 87 (83%) of 105 students (p = 0.02) fit properly in the pickup truck, and only 91 (89%) of 102 students (p = 0.74) fit properly in the minivan.CONCLUSION: Substantial proportions of children meeting current height guidelines for an adult seat belt do not meet safety requirements for fit, especially in larger, commonly used vehicles (large SUVs and trucks). This emphasizes the need for evaluation of fit by a trained personnel and/or development of standard back seat dimensions in all vehicles for maximum safety.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Epidemiologic level 1. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Automobiles#Body Size#Child#Child Restraint Systems#Equipment Design#Guideline Adherence#Guidelines as Topic#Humans#Seat Belts#Societies, Medical#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among teen drivers. The main goal of this program was to reduce texting while driving among high school teens through a unique peer-generated anti-texting campaign.METHODS: The program consisted of two phases. In phase 1, student leaders participated in a half-day, hospital-based experiential program that emphasized safe teen driving. In phase 2, these students conceptualized and implemented an anti-texting while driving campaign during the school year. The program enrolled 32 schools with 137 student participants in phase 1. This study uses a prospective quasi-experimental pre-post design. A presurvey and a follow-up online survey were used. Response rate was 81%. In phase 2, two rounds of observations of drivers were made near the participating schools at the beginning and end of the phase 2 campaign. The results were analyzed using proportion tests.RESULTS: There was a strong belief (6.49 on a seven-point scale) that texting while driving could result in a crash. About 58% had texted while driving in the previous 7 days in the pre-survey. This proportion decreased significantly to 44% in the follow-up (p<0.05). Knowledge of Tennessee Graduated Driver Licensing laws and feeling of empowerment to take action with a teen driver who was texting improved significantly (p<0.05). In phase 2, 12,309 drivers (adults and teens) were observed in the first round, and 13,153 were observed in the second round of observations. Significant reduction in the proportion of drivers texting while driving (from 13% to 9%; p<0.0001) was observed.CONCLUSION: Results of driver observations support the effectiveness of this program in meeting the key objective of reducing texting while driving. The program also influenced teenagers' willingness to take positive steps when faced with a driver who was texting. Future efforts should aim to influence social and peer norms.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic study, level IV. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adolescent Behavior#Automobile Driving#Cause of Death#Female#Health Promotion#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Schools#Tennessee#Text Messaging"
b'BACKGROUND: Violent-related (assault) injuries are a leading cause of death and disability in the United States. Many violent injury victims seek treatment in the emergency department (ED). Our objectives were to (1) estimate rates of violent-related injuries evaluated in United States EDs, (2) estimate linear trends in ED visits for violent-related injuries from 2000 to 2010, and (3) to determine the associated health care and work-loss costs.METHODS: We examined adults 18 years and older from a nationally representative survey (the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey) of ED visits, from 2000 to 2010. Violent injury was defined using International Classification of Diseases-9th Rev.-Clinical Modification, diagnosis and mechanism of injury codes. We calculated rates of ED visits for violent injuries. Medical and work-loss costs accrued by these injuries were calculated for 2005, inflation-adjusted to 2011 dollars using the WISQARS Cost of Injury Reports.RESULTS: An annual average of 1.4 million adults were treated for violent injuries in EDs from 2000 to 2010, comprising 1.6% (95% confidence interval, 1.5%-1.6%) of all US adult ED visits. Young adults (18-25 years), men, nonwhites, uninsured or publically insured patients, and those residing in high poverty urban areas were at increased risk for ED visits for violent injury. The 1-year, inflation-adjusted medical and work-loss cost of violent-inflicted injuries in adults in the United States was US $49.5 billion.CONCLUSION: Violent injuries account for over one million ED visits annually among adults, with no change in rates over the past decade. Young black men are at especially increased risk for ED visits for violent injuries. Overall, violent-related injuries resulted in substantial financial and societal costs.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Epidemiological study, level III. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#United States#Violence#Wounds and Injuries'
b"The American Nurses Credentialing Center's Magnet Recognition Program\xc2\xae released the 2019 Magnet\xc2\xae Application Manual () in October. The 2019 manual is the 12th application manual in the 27-year history of the program. The manual builds upon the foundation of seminal research conducted in the early 1980s that led to the creation of the program yet incorporates contemporary standards that address challenges faced globally by healthcare organizations today. labels: #Awards and Prizes#Benchmarking#Credentialing#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Leadership#Nursing Research#Nursing Service, Hospital#United States"
b'After reviewing the literature, nurses at the bedside seeking answers to clinical questions may find their inquiries remain unanswered. This article describes the yearlong Research Fellows Program in which candidates, funded for 12 hours per month of research release time, answered formal research questions in a curriculum designed to provide the skills to complete their study. Five have completed their studies; 1 has received a grant to continue. Two are in process of submitting manuscripts to journals. labels: #Clinical Nursing Research#Evidence-Based Nursing#Fellowships and Scholarships#Humans#Models, Nursing#Practice Guidelines as Topic'
b"With the industry in flux as federal healthcare reform legislation debates continue, leaders are preparing for what the post-Affordable Care Act world might look like. Predictions include patients assuming more responsibility for healthcare costs and therefore behaving like consumers, including choosing providers based on perceived value. What actions should chief nurse executives take to ensure the nursing enterprise responds to rising consumerism in healthcare? labels: #Choice Behavior#Community Participation#Consumer Health Information#Cost Sharing#Health Care Costs#Health Expenditures#Humans#Nurse Administrators#Nurse's Role#Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act#United States"
b'The CGEAN Board established a goal to support MSN administration programs to thrive and meet the need for well-prepared nurses to assume leadership roles. This column addresses how we embarked on this work through creation of a Circle of Advisors composed of national nursing leaders who came together to address specific curricular issues and more importantly to voice support for continuation of MSN administration programs. labels: #Education, Nursing, Graduate#Humans#Leadership#Nurse Administrators#Personnel Selection#Personnel Turnover#Retirement'
b"Healthcare systems seek effective ways to support and treat the growing number of individuals living with serious illness. The nature of these care episodes challenges delivery systems to attain proficiency in dealing with the multiplicity of chronic conditions in individuals and populations through understanding and attending to patients' medical and nonmedical aspects of health. This article describes LifeCourse, a healthcare approach that provides palliative care practices to patients with serious illness years prior to death. labels: #Caregivers#Holistic Health#Humans#Multiple Chronic Conditions#Palliative Care#Patient Preference#Patient-Centered Care#Professional-Family Relations#Professional-Patient Relations#Quality of Life#Social Support"
b'This article describes 1 organization\'s successful approach to mitigating the potential negative effects of a new electronic medical record on patient experience. The Carolina Care model, developed at the University of North Carolina Hospitals to actualize caring theory in practice, helped to structure and greatly facilitate this work. Seven focus areas were integrated to create the "Communication in an Electronic Environment" program with a strong emphasis on nurse-patient communication. labels: #Documentation#Electronic Health Records#Health Plan Implementation#Humans#Models, Organizational#North Carolina#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Patient Satisfaction'
b'OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to assess benefits of the acuity-adaptable (AA) care model in rural hospitals.BACKGROUND: The AA model aims to provide care in the same space from admission to discharge regardless of acuity. Evidence is lacking to support claims that AA care will improve patient safety, increase nurse productivity, and improve patient/staff satisfaction in rural hospitals.METHODS: Patients admitted to a rural intensive care unit (ICU) were allocated to an AA group or an ICU group. Patients in the AA group remained in the ICU room through discharge. Patients in the ICU group transferred out of ICU when acuity permitted. Patient anxiety, depression, and perception of emotional care were measured. Staff responses were assessed qualitatively.RESULTS: Acuity-adaptable patients reported significantly more anxiety and less perceived emotional care than ICU patients. Intensive care unit nurses resisted caring for less acute patients.CONCLUSION: Disadvantages may outweigh benefits of AA care delivery in the rural ICU. labels: #Adult#Attitude of Health Personnel#Efficiency, Organizational#Female#Focus Groups#Hospitals, Rural#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Organizational#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Handoff#Patient Safety#Patient Satisfaction#Patient Transfer#Pilot Projects#Program Evaluation'
b"OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to explore the relationship of night-shift napping on fatigue.BACKGROUND: Nurses' fatigue, especially at night, interferes with quality of life and job performance and impacts safety and health.METHODS: Night-shift nurses completed the Brief Fatigue Inventory and a demographic information sheet to determine differences in fatigue between nurses who napped during their night shift as compared with nurses who did not nap.RESULTS: No statistically significant differences in global fatigue were found; differences in rotating shift, age, and, gender were identified. Rotating shifts, a 2nd job, and caring for family predicted fatigue.CONCLUSIONS: Based on this pilot study, further investigations of fatigue among night-shift nurses are needed as well as evidence-based support to promote sleep. labels: #Adult#Circadian Rhythm#Fatigue#Female#Humans#Male#Medical Errors#Middle Aged#Night Care#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Safety#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Pilot Projects#Sleep Deprivation#Work Schedule Tolerance#Young Adult"
b'Perforated fluid distribution pipes have been widely used in agriculture, water supply and drainage, ventilation, the chemical industry, and other sectors. The momentum equation for variable mass flow with a variable exchange coefficient and variable friction coefficient was developed by using the momentum conservation method under the condition of a certain slope. The change laws of the variable momentum exchange coefficient and the variable resistance coefficient along the flow were analyzed, and the function of the momentum exchange coefficient was given. According to the velocity distribution of the power function, the momentum equation of variable mass flow was solved for different Reynolds numbers. The analytical solution contains components of pressure, gravity, friction and momentum and reflects the influence of various factors on the pressure distribution along the perforated pipe. The calculated results of the analytical solution were compared with the experimental values of the study by Jin et al. 1984 and Wang et al. 2001 with the mean errors 8.2%, 3.8% and 2.7%, and showed that the analytical solution of the variable mass momentum equation was qualitatively and quantitatively consistent with the experimental results. labels: #Friction#Gravitation#Pressure#Water#Water Supply'
b"Antibodies are thought to play an essential role in naturally acquired immunity to malaria. Prospective cohort studies have frequently shown how continuous exposure to the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum cause an accumulation of specific responses against various antigens that correlate with a decreased risk of clinical malaria episodes. However, small effect sizes and the often polymorphic nature of immunogenic parasite proteins make the robust identification of the true targets of protective immunity ambiguous. Furthermore, the degree of individual-level protection conferred by elevated responses to these antigens has not yet been explored. Here we applied a machine learning approach to identify immune signatures predictive of individual-level protection against clinical disease. We find that commonly assumed immune correlates are poor predictors of clinical protection in children. On the other hand, antibody profiles predictive of an individual's malaria protective status can be found in data comprising responses to a large set of diverse parasite proteins. We show that this pattern emerges only after years of continuous exposure to the malaria parasite, whereas susceptibility to clinical episodes in young hosts (<10 years) cannot be ascertained by measured antibody responses alone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aging#Antigens, Protozoan#Autoantibodies#Biomarkers#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Susceptibility#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Infant#Machine Learning#Malaria#Plasmodium falciparum#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Adult seroprevalence of HAV is decreasing in developed countries including South Korea, due to general sanitation improvement. Although hepatitis A vaccination was introduced in South Korea more than 20 years ago, recent infection rates have not decreased. In this study, we investigate the seroprevalence of anti-HAV IgG, and estimate the national disease burden of acute hepatitis A in adult population.METHODS: Seroprevalence data were collected from health promotion center of Korea University Guro Hospital, in Seoul, Korea from 2010 to 2014. Data from adults (\xe2\x89\xa520-years) being tested for anti-HAV IgG were included. In addition, epidemiological and clinical data of patients diagnosed with acute hepatitis A from 2009 to 2013, were collected from Korean Statistical Information Service (KOSIS) and the National Health Insurance Service (NHIS) database. Data were stratified and compared by age groups.RESULTS: A total of 11,177 subjects were tested for anti-HAV IgG from 2010 to 2014. Age-related seroprevalence showed relatively low seropositivity in young adults. Incidence of acute hepatitis A was highest in 2009 and lowest in 2013. When categorized by age group, adults in their 20s and 30s had more HAV infections and related-admissions than older adults. However, ICU admission rate and average insurance-covered cost was high in older adults.CONCLUSION: The anti-HAV IgG seropositivity in Korean younger adult population was low while the incidence of acute hepatitis A was high, especially in the 20-39 aged. However, a substantial number of older adults were infected, and required more intensive procedures and incurred higher insurance-covered medical costs. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Female#Hepatitis A#History, 21st Century#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Republic of Korea#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVE: Cognitive deficits are common in Parkinson's disease (PD) since the early stages and many patients eventually develop dementia. Yet, occurrence of dementia in PD is unpredictable. Evidence supports the hypothesis that insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is involved in cognitive deficits. Our aim was to evaluate the relationship between serum IGF-1 levels and neuropsychological scores in a large cohort of drug-na\xc3\xafve PD patients during the earliest stages of the disease.METHODS: Serum IGF-1 levels were determined in 405 early, drug-na\xc3\xafve PD patients and 191 healthy controls (HC) enrolled in the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI). The association between serum IGF-1 levels and neuropsychological scores was evaluated with linear regression analysis.RESULTS: IGF-1 levels were similar in PD and HC. In PD patients the lowest IGF-1 quartile was a predictor of lower performances at the Semantic Fluency task (\xce\xb2 = -3.46, 95%CI: -5.87 to -1.01, p = 0.005), the Symbol Digit Modalities Score (\xce\xb2 = -2.09, 95%CI: -4.02 to -0.15, p = 0.034), and Hopkins Verbal Learning Test Retention (\xce\xb2 = -0.05, 95%CI: -0.09 to -0.009, p = 0.019).CONCLUSIONS: Lower serum IGF-1 levels are associated to poor performances in cognitive tasks assessing executive function, attention and verbal memory in a large cohort of early PD patients. Follow-up studies are warranted to assess if IGF-1 is related to the development of dementia in PD. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cognition Disorders#Female#Humans#Insulin-Like Growth Factor I#Male#Middle Aged#Parkinson Disease"
b'Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) was conducted on 333 Cercospora isolates collected from Beta vulgaris (sugar beet, table beet and swiss chard) in the USA and Europe. Cercospora beticola was confirmed as the species predominantly isolated from leaves with Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) symptoms. However, C. cf. flagellaris also was detected at a frequency of 3% in two table beet fields in New York. Resolution of the spatial structure and identification of clonal lineages in C. beticola populations using genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) obtained from GBS was compared to genotyping using microsatellites. Varying distance thresholds (bitwise distance = 0, 1.854599 \xc3\x97 10-4, and 1.298 \xc3\x97 10-3) were used for delineation of clonal lineages in C. beticola populations. Results supported previous reports of long distance dispersal of C. beticola through genotype flow. The GBS-SNP data set provided higher resolution in discriminating clonal lineages; however, genotype identification was impacted by filtering parameters and the distance threshold at which the multi-locus genotypes (MLGs) were contracted to multi-locus lineages. The type of marker or different filtering strategies did not impact estimates of population differentiation and structure. Results emphasize the importance of robust filtering strategies and designation of distance thresholds for delineating clonal lineages in population genomics analyses that depend on individual assignment and identification of clonal lineages. Detection of recurrent clonal lineages shared between the USA and Europe, even in the relaxed-filtered SNP data set and with a conservative distance threshold for contraction of MLGs, provided strong evidence for global genotype flow in C. beticola populations. The implications of intercontinental migration in C. beticola populations for CLS management are discussed. labels: #Ascomycota#Beta vulgaris#Genotype#Microsatellite Repeats#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the current incidence, clinical features, risk factors, aetiology, antimicrobial resistance and outcomes of polymicrobial bloodstream infection (PBSI) in patients with cancer.METHODS: All prospectively collected episodes of PBSI in hospitalised patients were compared with episodes of monomicrobial bloodstream infection (MBSI) between 2006 and 2015.RESULTS: We identified 194 (10.2%) episodes of PBSI and 1702 MBSI (89.8%). The presence of cholangitis, biliary stenting, neutropenia, corticosteroids, neutropenic enterocolitis and other abdominal infections were identified as risk factors for PBSI. Overall, Gram-negative organisms were the most frequent aetiology, but Enterococcus spp. were especially frequent causes of Gram-positive PBSI (30.8%). Multidrug-resistant (MDR) organisms were more commonly found in PBSI than in MBSI (20.6% vs 12.9%; p = 0.003). Compared to patients with MBSI, those with PBSI presented with higher early (15% vs 1.4%; p = 0.04) and overall (32% vs 20.9%; p<0.001) case-fatality rates. Risk factors for overall case-fatality were a high-risk MASCC (Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer) index score, corticosteroid use, persistent bacteraemia and septic shock.CONCLUSIONS: PBSI is a frequent complication in patients with cancer and is responsible for high mortality rates. Physicians should identify patients at risk for PBSI and provide empiric antibiotic therapy that covers the most frequent pathogens involved in these infections, including MDR strains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Infective Agents#Bacteremia#Coinfection#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Knee osteoarthritis is a leading global cause of health-related quality of life loss. The aim of this project was to quantify health losses arising from knee osteoarthritis in New Zealand (NZ) in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost.METHODS: The Osteoarthritis Policy Model (OAPol), a validated Monte Carlo computer simulation model, was used to estimate QALYs lost due to knee osteoarthritis in the NZ adult population aged 40-84 over their lifetimes from the base year of 2006 until death. Data were from the NZ Health Survey, NZ Burden of Diseases, NZ Census, and relevant literature. QALYs were derived from NZ EQ-5D value set 2. Sensitivity to health state valuation, disease and pain prevalence were assessed in secondary analyses.RESULTS: Based on NZ EQ-5D health state valuations, mean health losses due to knee osteoarthritis over people's lifetimes in NZ are 3.44 QALYs per person, corresponding to 467,240 QALYs across the adult population. Average estimated per person QALY losses are higher for non-M\xc4\x81ori females (3.55) than M\xc4\x81ori females (3.38), and higher for non-M\xc4\x81ori males (3.34) than M\xc4\x81ori males (2.60). The proportion of QALYs lost out of the total quality-adjusted life expectancy for those without knee osteoarthritis is similar across all subgroups, ranging from 20 to 23 percent.CONCLUSIONS: At both the individual and population levels, knee osteoarthritis is responsible for large lifetime QALY losses. QALY losses are higher for females than males due to greater prevalence of knee osteoarthritis and higher life expectancy, and lower for M\xc4\x81ori than non-M\xc4\x81ori due to lower life expectancy. Large health gains are potentially realisable from public health and policy measures aimed at decreasing incidence, progression, pain, and disability of osteoarthritis. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#New Zealand#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Quality of Life"
b'BACKGROUND: Wilms tumor, aniridia, genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation (WAGR) syndrome is a rare genetic disorder caused by heterozygous deletions of WT1 and PAX6 at chromosome 11p13. Deletion of BDNF is known eto be associated with hyperphagia and obesity in both humans and animal models; however, neuroendocrine and epigenetic profiles of individuals with WAGR syndrome remain to be determined.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 5-year-old girl with the typical phenotype of WAGR syndrome. She showed profound delays in physical growth, motor and cognitive development without signs of obesity. Array comparative genome hybridization (CGH) revealed that she carried a 14.4\xc2\xa0Mb deletion at 11p14.3p12, encompassing the WT1, PAX6 and BDNF genes. She experienced recurrent hypoglycemic episodes at 5\xc2\xa0years of age. Insulin tolerance and hormonal loading tests showed normal hypothalamic responses to the hypoglycemic condition and other stimulations. Methylation analysis for freshly prepared DNA from peripheral lymphocytes using the pyro-sequencing-based system showed normal patterns of methylation at known imprinting control regions.CONCLUSIONS: Children with WAGR syndrome may manifest profound delay in postnatal growth through unknown mechanisms. Epigenetic factors and growth-associated genes in WAGR syndrome remain to be characterized. labels: #Child, Preschool#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#Comparative Genomic Hybridization#DNA Methylation#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Hormones#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Sequence Deletion#WAGR Syndrome'
b'BACKGROUND: Studying human genome using chromosomal microarrays has significantly improved the accuracy and yield of diagnosing genomic disorders. Chromosome 7q36 deletions and duplications are rare genomic disorders that have been reported in a limited number of children with developmental delay, growth retardation, and congenital malformation. Altered dosage of SHH and HLXB9, both located in 7q36.3, is believed to play roles in the phenotypes associated with these rearrangements. In this report we describe a child with 7q36.1q36.2 triplication that is proximal to the 7q36.3 region. In addition to the clinical description, we discuss the genes located in the triplicated region.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 22\xc2\xa0month old male child with a de novo 1.35\xc2\xa0Mb triplication at 7q36.1q36.2. His prenatal course was complicated by oligohydramnios, intrauterine growth restriction, and decreased fetal movement. Hypotonia, respiratory distress, and feeding difficulty were observed in the neonatal period. He also had developmental delay, cardiovascular malformation, growth failure with microcephaly, short stature, and underweight, sensorineural hearing loss, myopia, astigmatism, cryptorchidism, hypospadias, microphallus, lower extremity length discrepancy, bifid uvula, single palmer creases, and distinctive facial features including straight eyebrows, ptosis, up-slanted palpebral fissures, broad nasal bridge, low-set and posteriorly rotated ears, small mouth with thick lower lip, microretrognathia, and high-arched palate.CONCLUSIONS: The child presented here had developmental delay, distinctive facial features, multiple congenital anomalies, and 7q36.1q36.2 triplication. This triplication, which was found to be de novo, has not been previously described and is believed to result in the observed phenotype. The triplicated region harbors the GALNTL5, GALNT11, KMT2C, XRCC2, and ACTR3B genes. GALNT11 encodes a membrane-bound polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase that can O-glycosylate NOTCH1 leading to the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. Therefore, increased GALNT11 dosage can potentially alter the Notch signaling pathway explaining the pathogenicity of 7q36 triplication. Studying further cases with similar genomic rearrangements is needed to make final conclusions about the pathogenicity of this triplication. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Chromosome Duplication#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 7#Gene Amplification#Humans#Infant#Male#N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferases'
b'OBJECTIVE: Ruptured endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (REVAR) is being increasingly used to treat ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (rAAAs). However, the comparison between totally percutaneous (pREVAR) vs femoral cutdown (cREVAR) access for REVAR has not been studied. We used a national surgical database to evaluate the 30-day outcomes in patients undergoing pREVAR vs cREVAR.METHODS: Patients who underwent EVAR for rAAA between 2011 and 2014, inclusively, were studied in the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) targeted vascular database. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to compare preoperative demographics, operation-specific variables, and postoperative outcomes between those who had pREVAR and cREVAR.RESULTS: We identified 502 patients who underwent REVAR, of which 129 had pREVAR (25.7%) and 373 cREVAR (74.3%). Between 2011 and 2014, the use of totally percutaneous access for repair increased from 14% to 32%. Of all patients undergoing REVAR, 24% had bilateral percutaneous access, 2% had attempted percutaneous access converted to cutdown, 64% had bilateral femoral cutdowns, and 10% had single femoral cutdown. Univariate analysis showed there were no significant differences in age, gender, body mass index, AAA size, or other high-risk physiologic comorbidities between the two groups. There was also no difference in rates of preoperative hemodynamic instability (48.1% vs 45.0%; P\xc2\xa0= .55) or need for perioperative transfusion (67.4% vs 67.8%; P\xc2\xa0= .94). There was a higher incidence of use of regional anesthesia for pREVAR compared with cREVAR (20.9% vs 7.8%; P\xc2\xa0<.01). The incidence of postoperative wound complications was similar between both groups (4.8% vs 5.4%; P\xc2\xa0= .79), whereas hospital length of stay was shorter in the pREVAR group (mean difference, 1.3\xc2\xa0days). Overall 30-day mortality was higher in the pREVAR group (28.7% vs 20.1%; P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0.04), and operative time was longer (mean difference, 6.3\xc2\xa0minutes). However, when pREVARs done in 2011 to 2012 were compared with those done in 2013 to 2014, 30-day mortality decreased from 38.2% to 25.3% and operative time decreased by 25\xc2\xa0minutes (188 to 163\xc2\xa0minutes). Multivariate analysis showed there were no significant differences in mortality, wound complications, hospital length of stay, or operative time between pREVAR and cREVAR.CONCLUSIONS: The ACS NSQIP targeted vascular database shows that there has been increased adoption of pREVAR in recent years, with improved mortality and\xc2\xa0operative time over the 4-year study period. At this point, pREVAR has not yet been shown to be superior to cREVAR for\xc2\xa0rAAA, but these outcome improvements are encouraging and likely attributable to increased operator experience. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Aortic Rupture#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Chi-Square Distribution#Databases, Factual#Endovascular Procedures#Female#Femoral Artery#Humans#Length of Stay#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'OBJECTIVE: Randomized trials have shown an initial survival benefit of endovascular over conventional open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair but no long-term difference up to 6\xc2\xa0years after repair. Longer follow-up may be required to demonstrate the cumulative negative impact on survival of higher reintervention rates associated with endovascular repair.METHODS: We updated the results of the Dutch Randomized Endovascular Aneurysm Management (DREAM) trial, a multicenter, randomized controlled trial comparing open with endovascular aneurysm repair, up to 15\xc2\xa0years of follow-up. Survival and reinterventions were analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. Causes of death and secondary interventions were compared by use of an events per person-year analysis.RESULTS: There were 178 patients randomized to open and 173 to endovascular repair. Twelve years after randomization, the cumulative overall survival rates were 42.2% for open and 38.5% for endovascular repair, for a difference of 3.7 percentage points (95% confidence interval,\xc2\xa0-6.7 to 14.1; P\xc2\xa0= .48). The cumulative rates of freedom from reintervention were 78.9% for open repair and 62.2% for endovascular repair, for a difference of 16.7 percentage points (95% confidence interval, 5.8-27.6; P\xc2\xa0= .01). No differences were observed in causes of death. Cardiovascular and malignant disease account for the majority of deaths after prolonged follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: During 12\xc2\xa0years of follow-up, there was no survival difference between patients who underwent open or endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, despite a continuously increasing number of reinterventions in the endovascular repair group. Endograft durability and the need for continued endograft surveillance remain key issues. labels: #Aged#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Belgium#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Cause of Death#Disease-Free Survival#Endovascular Procedures#Female#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Netherlands#Postoperative Complications#Retreatment#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'Approximately 80% of ovarian cancer (OC) is diagnosed at late stages, and most patients die within 5 years of diagnosis due to recurrence or drug resistance. Novel treatments are required to improve patient survival. Immune therapy against cancer is promising; however, therapeutic vaccination has been limited by the inability of tumor antigens to induce effective immune responses. Chloride intracellular channel 1 (CLIC1) was previously identified as a possible tumor marker for OC. In this study, we constructed a recombinant protein by conjugating the extracellular domain of CLIC1 to the carboxyl terminus of Mycobacterium tuberculosis heat shock protein 70 (MtHsp70). Human dendritic cells (DCs) derived from cortical blood were pulsed with the fusion protein, and the antitumor effect of human cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) stimulated by autologous DCs was assessed in NOG mice. MtHsp70-CLIC1 promoted the phenotypic maturation of human DCs and the secretion of Th1-associated cytokines in\xc2\xa0vitro. MtHsp70-CLIC1-stimulated CTLs generated a CLIC1-specific immune response both in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo. These results indicate that DCs pulsed with MtHsp70-CLIC1 can enhance antitumor immunity against OC, providing a novel immune therapeutic strategy. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cancer Vaccines#Cell Line, Tumor#Chloride Channels#Dendritic Cells#Female#HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred NOD#Mice, SCID#Ovarian Neoplasms#Recombinant Fusion Proteins#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Imbalance of M1/M2 macrophages phenotype activation is a key point in diabetic nephropathy (DN). Macrophages mainly exhibit M1 phenotype, which contributes to the inflammation and fibrosis in DN. Studies indicate that autophage plays an important role in M1/M2 activation. However, the effect of mitophage on M1/M2 macrophage phenotype transformation in DN is unknown. This study investigates the role of mitophage on macrophage polarization in DN. In\xc2\xa0vivo experiments show that macrophages are exhibited to M1 phenotype and display a lower level of mitophagy in the kidney of streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Additionally, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression is positive correlated with the P62 expression, while negative correlated with LC3. Electronic microscope analysis shows mitochondria swelling, crista decrease and lysosome reduction in DN rats compared with NC rats. In\xc2\xa0vitro, RAW264.7 macrophages switch to M1 phenotype under high glucose conditions. Mitophagy is downregulated in such high glucose induced M1 macrophages. Furthermore, macrophages tend to switch to the M1 phenotype, expressing higher iNOS and TNF-\xce\xb1 when impair mitophagy by 3-MA. Rapamycin, an activator of mitophagy, signifcantly blocks high-glucose induced M1 makers (iNOS and TNF-\xce\xb1) expression, meanwhile enhances M2 makers (MR and Arg-1) expression. These results demonstrate that mitophage participates in the regulation of M1/M2 macrophage phenotype in diabetic nephropathy. labels: #Animals#Autophagy#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Diabetic Nephropathies#Glucose#Kidney#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Degradation#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II#Phenotype#RAW 264.7 Cells#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'Nitric oxide (NO) is considered as a signalling molecule involved in a variety of important physiological and pathological processes in plant and animal systems. The major pathway of NO reactions in\xc2\xa0vivo represents S-nitrosation of thiols to form S-nitrosothiols. S-nitrosoglutathione reductase (GSNOR) is the key enzyme in the degradation pathway of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), a low-molecular weight adduct of NO and glutathione. GSNOR indirectly regulates the level of protein S-nitrosothiol in the cells. This study was focused on the dynamic regulation of the activity of plant GSNORs through reversible S-nitrosation and/or oxidative modifications of target cysteine residues. Pre-incubation with NO/NO-donors or hydrogen peroxide resulted in a decreased reductase and dehydrogenase activity of all studied plant GSNORs. Incubation with thiol reducing agent completely reversed inhibitory effects of nitrosative modifications and partially also oxidative inhibition. In biotin-labelled samples, S-nitrosation of plant GSNORs was confirmed after immunodetection and using mass spectrometry S-nitrosation of conserved Cys271 was identified in tomato GSNOR. Negative regulation of constitutive GSNOR activity in\xc2\xa0vivo by nitrosative or oxidative modifications might present an important mechanism to control GSNO levels, a critical mediator of the downstream signalling effects of NO, as well as for formaldehyde detoxification in dehydrogenase reaction mode. labels: #Aldehyde Oxidoreductases#Animals#Cysteine#Hydrogen Peroxide#Lycopersicon esculentum#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Donors#Nitrosation#Oxidation-Reduction#Plant Proteins#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Recombinant Proteins#S-Nitrosoglutathione#S-Nitrosothiols#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Coumarins are a member of the benzopyrone family of compounds with diverse and interesting pharmacological properties. In the present study, we report the in vitro cytotoxicity evaluation of 7,8-Diacetoxy-3-arylcoumarin derivatives (5a-h) in human prostate (PC-3) and breast (MDA-MB-231) cancer cell lines.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cytotoxic activity was evaluated using crystal violet dye-binding assay. Furthermore, the most active compound in vitro cytotoxic activity in human non-cancerous cell line and its effect on the cell-cycle phases, apoptosis proteins expression, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and Glutathione (GSH) level were performed.RESULTS: Among the eight compounds that were evaluated, 7,8-Diacetoxy-3-(4-methylsulfonyl phenyl)coumarin (5f) was the most active derivative with highest cytotoxic activity and selectivity against the PC-3 cell line vs. the non-cancerous WPE1-N22 cell line. The cytotoxic action of compound 5f in PC-3 cells is associated with the cell-cycle arrest at -G0/G1 phase, apoptosis, loss in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and depletion of Glutathione (GSH) level.CONCLUSION: The result indicates that the presence of p-methylsulfonylphenyl group on compound 5f is critical in modulating selective cytotoxic activity and induction of apoptosis via the mitochondrial apoptotic signaling pathway that is independent of cytochrome c release. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Coumarins#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Prostatic Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been shown to inhibit the induction and progression of many tumor types. The aim of this study was to determine the anticancer effect of docosahexaenoic acid monoglyceride (MAG-DHA) alone and in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent carboplatin (CBT) on lung cancer models.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adenocarcinoma cell lines A549 and H1299 were used to evaluate the effect of combined MAG-DHA and CBT treatments both in vitro and in vivo in xenograft models.RESULTS: MAG-DHA+CBT treatment decreased cell proliferation and invasion abilities of A549 and H1299 cells. Furthermore, MAG-DHA+CBT treatment resulted in a decreased activation of epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in cell lysates. In A549 and H1299 xenograft mouse models, MAG-DHA+CBT treatment reduced tumor growth.CONCLUSION: Combined MAG-DHA and CBT treatment inhibited tumor growth by suppressing EGFR and ERK signaling pathways in lung carcinoma cells. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Carboplatin#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Mice#Mice, Nude#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Monoglycerides#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND: Temozolomide is the primary chemotherapeutic agent used to treat glioblastoma. However, many tumors are initially resistant to or develop resistance to temozolomide, mainly due to high levels of O6-methylguanine DNA transferase (MGMT) which repairs DNA damage traditionally caused by temozolomide. Dihydrotanshinone (DHT) is extracted from Salvia miltiorrhiza, a Chinese medicinal plant, and has also been shown to have antiproliferative effects on various cancer cell lines. DHT has been to shown to induce apoptosis via induction endoplasmic reticulum stress, that can reportedly sensitize cells to temozolomide.MATERIALS AND METHODS: MTS cellular proliferation assays or trypan blue viability assays were used to determine the effects of DHT/temozolomide combinatorial treatment. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to determine effects on MGMT and P-glycoprotein levels after singular and combinatorial treatment.RESULTS: DHT had a synergistic oncolytic effect in a MGMT-deficient cell line and a sensitizing effect in a MGMT-expressing cell line. Cytotoxicity due to DHT was shown to be reactive oxygen species-dependent, while the combinatorial effect of DHT and temozolomide synergistically reduced MGMT and P-glycoprotein levels.CONCLUSION: DHT was shown to augment temozolomide efficacy, indicating that, since DHT can penetrate the blood-brain barrier, temozolomide in combination with DHT may represent a promising therapeutic option for glioblastoma. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Dacarbazine#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Drug Synergism#Glioblastoma#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Phenanthrenes#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pancreatic Ductal adeno-carcinoma (PDAC) is a devastating disease. Gemcitabine is the standard chemotherapeutic agent against PDAC but has only limited effectiveness. The aim of the study was to develop and study the targeting affinity and in vitro antiproliferative effect of a MUC4-targeted gemcitabine-loaded immuno-liposome for treatment of PDAC.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Gemcitabine-loaded immunoliposomes were developed by grafting anti-MUC4 antibodies to the liposomal surface. Targeting affinity was compared in vitro between immunoliposomes and non-targeted liposomes and anti-proliferative effect was compared in vitro between free drug, non-targeted liposomal gemcitabine and MUC4-targeted immunoliposomal gemcitabine on a MUC4-positive pancreatic cancer cell line, Capan-1.RESULTS: Development of a MUC4-targeted immunoliposome was confirmed and characterized by immunoblots and size characterization. The MUC4-targeted immunoliposome showed a significantly higher targeting affinity compared to the non-targeted liposomes and also showed an improved antiproliferative effect compared to free and non-targeted liposomal drug.CONCLUSION: Successful development and characterization of a MUC4-targeted immunoliposome shows promising results for a targeted treatment and improved retention of gemcitabine for treatment of PDAC. labels: #Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Cell Proliferation#Deoxycytidine#Drug Synergism#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Liposomes#Mucin-4#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Fucoidans are gaining popularity as natural immunomodulators. The aim of this study was to compare the immunological activities or both purified samples and commercially available mixtures containing fucoidan.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated the effects of various samples on phagocytosis, mitogenic response, natural killer (NK) activity, antibody formation and inhibition of breast cancer growth.RESULTS: We found significant immunostimulating activity, but the strength of these effects was different among individual samples.CONCLUSION: Fucoidans have strong immunostimulating potential, including inhibition of cancer, with isolated samples offering better activity than commercial mixtures. labels: #Adjuvants, Immunologic#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Female#Immunologic Factors#Inflammation#Killer Cells, Natural#Macrophages#Mammary Neoplasms, Animal#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Phagocytosis#Polysaccharides#T-Lymphocytes'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: B cell-specific Moloney murine leukemia virus integration site 1 (BMI1) is up-regulated in several cancers; therefore, we investigated the effects of BMI1 inhibitors on leukemia cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four acute myeloid leukemia and two T-lymphoblastic leukemia cell lines were treated with BMI1 inhibitors artemisinin, PRT4165, and PTC-209 and analyzed for cell proliferation and gene expression by microarray and immunoblotting.RESULTS: PTC-209 and PRT4165 suppressed the growth of all cell lines through apoptosis.Artemisinin acted only on Jurkat cells. BMI1 inhibitors and BMI1-specific siRNA down-regulated the expression of NOTCH signaling proteins NOTCH1, HES1, and MYC. All but one cell lines did not have the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A) gene targeted by BMI1, thus the inhibitors acted through CDKN2A-independent pathways.CONCLUSION: BMI1 inhibition suppressed proliferation of leukemia cells through NOTCH signaling which functions downstream of BMI1, suggesting that BMI1 inhibitors can be candidate targeted drugs against leukemia. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Heterocyclic Compounds, 2-Ring#Humans#Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute#Leukemia, T-Cell#Polycomb Repressive Complex 1#RNA, Small Interfering#Receptors, Notch#Signal Transduction#Thiazoles#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the characteristics of two cisplatin (CDDP)-loaded, sialyl Lewis X-modified liposomes (CDDP-SLX-LIP) with different particle size. Each had the same lipid composition and CDDP concentration, but a different drug-to-lipid ratio.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The amount of platinum in the filtrates was determined by the ICP method. The antitumor effect was assessed using rats bearing MRMT-1 tumor.RESULTS: CDDP release was faster from the larger liposome formulation (L-LIP) than from the smaller one (S-LIP). Treatment with the two CDDP-SLX-LIPs resulted in comparable antitumor effects without obvious side-effects, but treatment with CDDP solution resulted in significant weight loss and an elevated BUN. Tumor accumulation of CDDP-SLX-LIP was clearly greater than that of CDDP solution and accumulation of S-LIP was greater than that of L-LIP.CONCLUSION: CDDP-SLX-LIP exhibited antitumor effects depending on their release behavior and tumor accumulation. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Cisplatin#Drug Liberation#Female#Liposomes#Mammary Neoplasms, Experimental#Oligosaccharides#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Tissue Distribution'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pirarubicin (THP) has shown equal or superior cytotoxicity compared to doxorubicin. One of the main anticancer actions of doxorubicin is believed to be involved in ROS (reactive oxygen species) generation. Therefore, the anticancer mechanisms of THP may involve ROS generation. The aim of this study was to clarify the mechanisms of THP-induced apoptosis through ROS generation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed the apoptotic events induced by THP in HL-60 cells and HP100 cells, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-resistant cells derived from HL-60.RESULTS: The apparent cytotoxicity could be detected at above 0.1 \xce\xbcM in HL-60 cells after 24-h incubation, whereas it was suppressed under these conditions in HP100 cells. In HP100 cells, THP-induced apoptosis, evaluated by DNA ladder formation, H2O2generation, mitochondrial membrane potential decrease and caspase-3/7 activity, was suppressed or delayed compared to those of HL-60 cells.CONCLUSION: These findings can be explained by the involvement of H2O2generation in the THP apoptotic pathway. This is the first report on THP-induced apoptosis through the H2O2generation. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: (-)-Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) has been indicated to regulate the function of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is a drug transporter encoded by the MDR1 (ABCB1) gene. P-gp expression is induced by doxorubicin (DOX). We aimed to clarify the mechanisms and inhibitory effects of EGCG on DOX-induced P-gp expression in HepG2 cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rhodamine 123 (Rho123) was used for P-gp substrate. Western blotting and polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) were conducted using specific antibodies and primer sets.RESULTS: The DOX-pretreated cells accumulated a significantly decreased amount of Rho123), than control cells; however, the cells pretreated with EGCG and DOX, in combination, accumulated Rho123 more than DOX-pretreated cells. DOX induced the overexpression of MDR1 mRNA and increased the phosphorylation of Akt, ERK1/2, p38 MAPK and JNK. EGCG significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of Akt and ERK. The DOX-induced P-gp overexpression was partially suppressed by an inhibitor of MEK1/2 (U0126), but not by a PI3K inhibitor (LY294002). Interestingly, the expression of P-gp was synergistically inhibited by combined treatment of U0126 with LY294002 and also inhibited by an mTORC1 inhibitor, rapamycin.CONCLUSION: EGCG inhibited DOX-induced overexpression of P-gp through the coordinate inhibitory action on MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. labels: #ATP Binding Cassette Transporter, Sub-Family B#Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Catechin#Doxorubicin#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Neuroprotective Agents#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Phosphorylation#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Rhodamine 123#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b"BACKGROUND: Neuroblastoma is an embryonal malignancy arising from the aberrant growth of neural crest progenitor cells of the sympathetic nervous system. The tachykinin receptor 1 (TACR1) - substance P complex is associated with tumoral angiogenesis and cell proliferation in a variety of cancer types. Inhibition of TACR1 was recently described to impede growth of NB cell lines. However, the relevance of TACR1 in clinical settings is unknown.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We investigated gene expression levels of full-length and truncated TACR1 in 59 neuroblastomas and correlated these data with the patients' clinical parameters such as outcome, metastasis, International Neuroblastoma Staging System (INSS) status, MYCN proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor (MYCN) status, gender and age.RESULTS: Our results indicated that TACR1 is ubiquitously expressed in neuroblastoma but expression levels are independent of clinical parameters.CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that TACR1 might serve as a potent anticancer target in a large variety of patients with neuroblastoma, independent of tumor biology and clinical stage. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Biomarkers, Tumor#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#N-Myc Proto-Oncogene Protein#Neoplasm Staging#Neuroblastoma#Prognosis#Receptors, Neurokinin-1#Survival Rate#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: An example of plant-derived compounds that may be of great importance in oncological therapy is emodin. The aim of this study was to evaluate the range of changes in the lysosomal compartment of HeLa cervical cancer cells treated with emodin.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Changes in the lysosomal compartment were evaluated using microscopic techniques. In order to evaluate the activity of lysosomal enzymes and the permeability of the lysosomal membrane, a spectrophotometric technique was employed.RESULTS: Emodin induced significant changes in the lysosomal compartment, manifesting as an increase in the number of lysosomes, autophagic vacuoles and the activity of lysosomal hydrolases. Emodin exhibited cytotoxic activity against lysosomes through lysosomal membrane damage with possible leaks of lysosomal hydrolases into the cytoplasm.CONCLUSION: Emodin induces degradation processes and promotes the death of tumor cells through a mechanism that occurs with clear involvement of the lysosomal compartment. labels: #Apoptosis#Autophagy#Cell Proliferation#Emodin#Female#Humans#Hydrolases#Lysosomes#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms#Vacuoles'
b'Tetrandrine is an alkaloid extracted from a traditional China medicine plant, and is considered part of food therapy as well. In addition, it has been widely reported to induce apoptotic cell death in many human cancer cells. However, the mechanism of Tetrandrine on human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells (NPC) is still questioned. In our study, we examined whether Tetrandrine can induce apoptosis of NPC-TW 039 cells. We found that cell morphology was changed after treatment with different concentrations of Tetrandrine. Further, we indicated that the NPC-TW 039 cells viability decreased in a Tetrandrine dose-dependent manner. We also found that tetrandrine induced cell cycle arrest in G0/G1phase. Tetrandrine induced DNA condensation by DAPI staining as well. In addition, we found that Tetrandrine induced Ca2+release in the cytosol. At the same time, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress occurred. Then we used western blotting to examine the protein expression which is associated with mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways and caspase-dependent pathways. To further examine whether Ca2+was released or not with Tetrandrine induced-apoptosis, we used the chelator of Ca2+and showed that cell viability increased. At the same time, caspase-3 expression was decreased. Furthermore, confocal microscopy examination revealed that Tetrandrine induced expression of ER stress-related proteins GADD153 and GRP78. Our results indicate that Tetrandrine induces apoptosis through calcium-mediated ER stress and caspase pathway in NPC-TW 039 cells. In conclusion, Tetrandrine may could be used for treatment of human nasopharyngeal carcinoma in future. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Benzylisoquinolines#Calcium#Calpain#Carcinoma#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Middle Aged#Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase (Smac) is a proapoptogenic mitochondrial protein that antagonizes inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAPs), resulting in induction of apoptosis. In the present study we investigated the effects of a Smac mimetic in combination with doxorubicin against osteosarcoma.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vitro effects of the combination of a Smac mimetic AT-406 and doxorubicin on cell proliferation and apoptosis in osteosarcoma cell lines were examined using cell proliferation assays, flow cytometry, and immunoblot analyses. For in vivo experiments, human osteosarcoma xenografts were treated with combination of the two substances, and tumor volume and apoptotic activity in treated tumors were assessed.RESULTS: In vitro studies revealed that combination of the two substances significantly inhibited osteosarcoma proliferation with decreased cIAP1 expression and induced apoptosis in osteosarcoma cells. Combination of the two substances significantly suppressed osteosarcoma growth in vivo. Moreover, decreased cIAP1 expression and increased apoptotic activity were observed in tumors treated by their combination of the substances.CONCLUSION: The Smac mimetic AT-406 showed an apoptotic effect and a synergistic antitumor effect with doxorubicin on osteosarcoma. The combination of AT-406 and doxorubicin may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for osteosarcoma treatment. labels: #Animals#Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Azocines#Benzhydryl Compounds#Bone Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Oligopeptides#Osteosarcoma#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The neurokinin 3 receptor (NK-3R) is differentially expressed in the central nervous system including cases of human oral squamous cell carcinoma. However, the role of NK-3R signaling in oral squamous cell carcinoma is not well known.MATERIALS AND METHODS: NK-3R expression in surgically resected oral squamous cell carcinoma was examined immunohistochemically and the strength of the expression was quantified. We evaluated the function of NK-3R signaling using NK-3R antagonist in human oral squamous cell carcinoma bone invasion mouse model.RESULTS: NK-3R was significantly expressed in tumor cells that had invaded the bone matrix compared to the oral side tumor cells. SB222200, a selective antagonist of NK-3R, significantly suppressed the radiographic osteolytic lesion and tumorigenesis.CONCLUSION: NK-3R signaling is a potential target for the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma in cases of bone destruction. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Bone Resorption#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Mouth Neoplasms#Prognosis#Quinolines#Receptors, Neurokinin-3#Retrospective Studies#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Previous evidence demonstrates that trehalose liposomes (DMTreC14) composed of L-\xce\xb1-dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) and \xce\xb1-D-glycopyranosyl-\xce\xb1-D-glucopyranoside monomyristate (TreC14) inhibit proliferation and invasion on lung carcinoma (A549 cells) in vitro. Here, we aimed to investigate suppressive effects of DMTreC14 on the growth of tumor on human lung carcinoma bearing mice.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DMTreC14 composed of 30 mol% DMPC and 70 mol% TreC14 were prepared by the sonication method. Anti-tumor activities of DMTreC14 using the subcutaneous and orthotopic graft-bearing mice of A549 cells were investigated in vivo.RESULTS: The remarkable reduction of volume and weight in subcutaneous tumors on subcutaneous lung carcinoma-bearing mice topically administrated with DMTreC14 were obtained. Apoptotic-positive cells in the subcutaneous tumor slice of subcutaneous lung carcinoma-bearing mice topically administrated with DMTreC14 were observed using TUNEL staining. Lung weights on the orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma intravenously administrated with DMTreC14 were markedly decreased compared to those of the control group. Remarkable decrease in dimensions of tumor area of lung on the orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma intravenously administrated with DMTreC14 was obtained in histological analysis using the hematoxylin and eosin staining.CONCLUSION: Remarkably high anti-tumor activities of DMTreC14 for the subcutaneous and orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma accompanied with apoptosis were revealed for the first time in vivo. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Liposomes#Lung Neoplasms#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Trehalose#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND: Several reports have shown that the overexpression of the MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (MET), was more frequently observed in clear cell carcinoma (CCC) than in non-CCC. We evaluated the antitumor activity of cabozantinib, that targets MET.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A gene expression analysis of tumors from human ovarian cancers was carried out by transcriptome sequencing. An in vitro 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay (MTT assay) and in vivo experiments were performed to determine the activity of cabozantinib.RESULTS: The MET levels were higher in tumors with CCC than high-grade serous carcinoma (2.2-fold). Cabozantinib inhibited cell viability and phosphorylation of AKT and MAPK under the treatment of hepatocyte growth factor in RMG-I CCC cells. The tumors removed from mice given cabozantinib of 10 mg/kg weighed 70% less than control on day 15, and the immunohistochemical reactivity of phosphorylated MET was reduced compared with control mice.CONCLUSION: Cabozantinib contributes to tumor reduction, and phosphorylated MET represents an attractive target of CCC. labels: #Adenocarcinoma, Clear Cell#Anilides#Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Female#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Ovarian Neoplasms#Phosphorylation#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Pyridines#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Although pterostilbene, a natural analog of resveratrol, has potent antitumor activity against several human cancer types, the possible inhibitory mechanisms against subtypes of human breast cancer with different hormone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status remain unknown. We investigated the anticancer activity of pterostilbene using three subtypes of breast cancer cell lines. Pterostilbene treatment exhibited a dose-dependent antiproliferative activity, with the greatest growth inhibition observed in triple-negative MDA-MB-468 cells. Although pterostilbene arrested cell-cycle progression at the G0/G1phase regardless of breast cancer subtype, its apoptosis-inducing activity was highly apparent in MDA-MB-468 cells. Pterostilbene induced strong and sustained activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, with concomitant cyclin D1 suppression and p21 up-regulation, and inhibited the phosphorylation of AKT and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), followed by subsequent up-regulation of BAX without affecting B-cell lymphoma-extra large (BCL-xL). Oral administration of pterostilbene significantly suppressed tumor growth in nude mice xenotransplanted with MDA-MB-468 cells. These data suggest a potential role of pterostilbene for prevention and treatment of human breast cancer, especially of triple-negative breast cancer. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Cyclin D1#Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases#Female#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Phosphorylation#Receptor, ErbB-2#Stilbenes#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Eleven piperic acid esters were subjected to quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis based on their cytotoxicity and tumor-specificity, in order to find their new biological activities.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity against four human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and three oral normal mesenchymal cells was determined by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) method. Tumor specificity (TS) was evaluated by the ratio of the mean 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC50) against normal cells to that against tumor cell lines. Potency-selectivity expression (PSE) value was calculated by dividing the TS value by CC50against tumor cells. Apoptosis markers were detected by western blot analysis. Physicochemical, structural and quantum-chemical parameters were calculated based on the conformations optimized by force-field minimization.RESULTS: One phenylmethyl ester and five phenylethyl esters showed relatively higher cytotoxicity and tumor specificity, that were significantly modified by introduction of hydroxyl and methoxy groups. On the other hand, phenylpropyl ester, phenylbutyl ester and decyl ester were essentially inactive. (2E,4E)-5-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2,4-pentadienoic acid 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)ethyl ester [4] had the highest TS and PSE values. This compound also stimulated the cleavage of caspase-3, suggesting the induction of apoptosis. TS values were correlated with molecular size, ionization potential, molecular shape, ionization potential and electronegativity. None of the compounds had any anti-HIV activity.CONCLUSION: Chemical modification of the lead compound may be a potential choice for designing a new type of anticancer drugs. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Child#Esters#Fatty Acids, Unsaturated#Female#HIV#Humans#Molecular Structure#Mouth Neoplasms#Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The synergistic combinations of natural products have long been the basis of Traditional Chinese herbal Medicine formulas. In this study, we investigated the synergistic effects of a combination of berberine and evodiamine against human breast cancer MCF-7 cells in vitro and in vivo, and explored its mechanism.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cell survival was measured using the MTT assay. Apoptosis-related proteins were observed using western blot analysis. Apoptosis was detected with flow cytometric analysis and by Hoechst 33258 staining. Tumor xenografts were used in vivo.RESULTS: Compared to berberine or evodiamine treatments alone, the combination treatment of berberine (25 \xce\xbcM) and evodiamine (15 \xce\xbcM) synergistically inhibited the proliferation of MCF-7 cells in a time-dependent manner and resulted in the G0/G1phase accumulation of cells that exhibited increased expression levels of the CDK inhibitors p21 and p27 with a concomitant reduction in the expression levels of cell-cycle checkpoint proteins cyclin D1, cyclin E, CDK4, and CDK6. Furthermore, the combination treatment induced apoptosis that was accompanied by increased expression levels of p53 and Bax, reduced expression levels of Bcl-2, activation of caspase-7, and caspase-9, and the cleavage of PARP. The combination of berberine and evodiamine synergistically inhibited tumor growth in vivo in MCF-7 human breast cancer xenografts.CONCLUSION: Combination of berberine and evodiamine acts synergistically to suppress the proliferation of MCF-7 cells by inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, illustrating the potential synergistic and combinatorial application of bioactive natural products. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Berberine#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Quinazolines#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Seventeen aurones were subjected to quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis based on their cytotoxicity and tumor-specificity, in order to find their new biological activities.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity against three human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and three oral mesenchymal cells was determined by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) method. Tumor specificity (TS) was evaluated by the ratio of the mean 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC50) against normal cells to that against tumor cell lines. Potency-selectivity expression (PSE) value was calculated by dividing TS by CC50against tumor cells. Physicochemical, structural and quantum-chemical parameters were calculated based on the conformations optimized by force-field minimization.RESULTS: Sixteen out of seventeen aurones showed relatively higher cytotoxicity and tumor specificity. Among them, (2Z)-2-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)methylene]-3(2H)-benzofuranone [7] showed the highest TS value and PSE values, comparable with those of doxorubicin and higher than 5-FU, respectively. TS values were correlated with molecular shape, size and polarizability rather than the types of substituted groups.CONCLUSION: Chemical modification of the lead compound may be a potential choice for designing a new type of anticancer drugs. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzofurans#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Proliferation#Child#Female#Humans#Molecular Structure#Mouth Neoplasms#Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic, is now increasingly used as an off-label indication for the management of cancer patients with chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). However, how olanzapine affects cancer cells per se remains poorly understood.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of olanzapine treatment and survivin knockdown, alone or in combination with chemotherapeutic agents, on survivin expression and cell viability were investigated in human cancer cell lines.RESULTS: Olanzapine reduced survivin expression in lung and pancreatic cancer stem cell (CSC) lines and sensitized them to chemotherapeutic agents such as 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, and cisplatin in a survivin expression-dependent manner. Olanzapine also reduced survivin expression and chemosensitized serum-cultured, non-CSC ovarian cancer cells that expressed survivin.CONCLUSION: Olanzapine may benefit cancer patients not only as an antiemetic for CINV, but also by enhancing the effects of chemotherapeutic agents through down-regulation of survivin, which has been implicated in multidrug chemoresistance. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzodiazepines#Cell Proliferation#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Humans#Inhibitor of Apoptosis Proteins#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Cancer cells consume high amounts of glucose to produce ATP and molecules entering biosynthesis. Numerous experimental studies have demonstrated that glucose deprivation and/or glycolysis inhibition arrest cancer cell growth and may increase the efficiency of cytotoxic drugs. In contrast, increasing glycolysis in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) activates these cells that destroy cancer cells. We propose to increase the efficiency of chemotherapy by modulating glucose intake during the course of chemotherapy.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Glucose and caloric intake should be drastically reduced the day before and during chemotherapy administration to deprive cancer cells of ATP and molecules required to repair cytotoxic lesions. Few hours after chemotherapy, glucose and caloric intake should be drastically increased for few days to promote the activation of TILs that reinforce the destruction of cancer cells.RESULTS: This strategy could improve the results of chemotherapy by first enhancing cytotoxic stress against tumor cells and then promoting activation of the anti-cancer immune response.CONCLUSION: The modulation of glucose intake during chemotherapy should be tested clinically. The proposed scheme is simple, surely easier to follow than a strict chronic diet, and should avoid weight loss. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Glucose#Glycolysis#Humans#Lymphocytes, Tumor-Infiltrating#Neoplasms#Oxidation-Reduction'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Silica nanoparticles (nano-SiO2) are widely used in many industrial areas and there is much controversy surrounding cytotoxic effects of such nanoparticles. In order to determine the toxicity and possible molecular mechanisms involved, we conducted several tests with two breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T.MATERIALS AND METHODS: After exposure to nano-SiO2, growth, apoptosis, motility of breast cancer cells were monitored. In addition, modulation of signal transduction induced by nano-SiO2was detected through western blot analysis.RESULTS: Treatment of nano-SiO2repressed the growth of breast cancer cell lines. It also increased apoptosis and reduced cell motility. Moreover, exposure to nano-SiO2significantly disturbed the dimerization of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), followed by down-regulation of its downstream cellular sarcoma kinase (c-SRC) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling cascades.CONCLUSION: Nano-SiO2has a cytotoxic effect on MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T breast cancer cells via modulation of EGFR signaling cascades. labels: #Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Nanoparticles#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction#Silicon Dioxide#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MYD88), which activates the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-\xce\xbaB) pathway, is important for the growth of lymphoma and leukaemia cells. In this study, we investigated the effects of ST2825, a synthetic peptidomimetic compound which inhibits MYD88 homodimerization, on their growth.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seven lymphoma and leukaemia cell lines including TMD8, a B-cell lymphoma line with MYD88-activating mutation, were treated with ST2825 and analysed for cell proliferation and expression of NF-\xce\xbaB signalling-related molecules.RESULTS: ST2825 suppressed the growth of all cell lines by inducing apoptosis and down-regulating phosphorylation of NF-\xce\xbaB pathway components inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase (I\xce\xbaB) and reticuloendotheliosis oncogene A (RelA), as well as of MYD88 activator Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK), suggesting that MYD88 may affect BTK activity. ST2825 effects were specific as MYD88-targeting siRNA also suppressed phosphorylation of NF-\xce\xbaB signalling proteins and BTK in TMD8 cells.CONCLUSION: ST2825 may be a novel drug targeting not only B-lymphoid malignancies with MYD88 mutations, but also lymphoma and leukaemia with wild-type MYD88. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Heterocyclic Compounds, 2-Ring#Humans#Leukemia#Lymphoma#Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88#Spiro Compounds#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest human cancers. In the current study, we investigated the possibility of a new treatment strategy using a combination of the new fluoroquinolone, enoxacin, and mild ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation. Enoxacin with UVA irradiation increased the number of annexin V-positive (apoptotic) pancreatic cancer cells in time- and concentration-dependent manners, whereas alone neither had these effects. In addition, enoxacin with UVA irradiation induced cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in AsPC1 human pancreatic cancer cells. Moreover, the singlet oxygen scavengers, histidine and sodium azide, and the hydroxyl radical scavenger, mannitol, significantly suppressed apoptosis induced by enoxacin and UVA irradiation, respectively. These results suggest that UVA irradiation activates enoxacin, after which activated enoxacin induces apoptosis of AsPC1 cells through generation of reactive oxygen species. Therefore, the combination of enoxacin with mild UVA irradiation may be a useful method for treating pancreatic cancer. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Enoxacin#Humans#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases#Reactive Oxygen Species#Topoisomerase II Inhibitors#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Ultraviolet Rays'
b'AIMS: Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs) are usually diagnosed in an advanced stage. Most patients with PanNETs die of metastasis. Vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) is a strong stimulator of angiogenesis and tumor metastasis. We aimed to investigate the effect of MART-10 [19-nor-2\xce\xb1-(3-hydroxypropyl)-1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3], a 1\xce\xb1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D3 (1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3) analog, on PanNET cell metastasis after VEGF-A stimulation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Migration and invasion assays, western blot, and immunofluorescent staining were applied in this study.RESULTS: VEGF-A increased PanNET cell migration and invasion, which was attenuated by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10. VEGF-A treatment stimulated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of PanNET cells. During this process, expression of snail family transcriptional repressor 1 and 2, and fibronectin was up-regulated. 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10 counteracted VEGF-A-induced EMT. In addition, expression of neuropilin 1, a key protein in VEGF-A signaling, was down-regulated by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10. Furthermore, synthesis of F-actin was increased by VEGF-A and reduced by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10.CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that MART-10 could be deemed a promising drug for PanNET treatment. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cholecalciferol#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Insulinoma#Rats#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Numerous evidence has shown that PEITC and BITC inhibit cancer cell migration and invasion. In this study, we investigated the anti-metastatic mechanisms of PEITC and BITC in human melanoma cancer A375.S2 cells in vitro.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used a cell viability assay, an in-vitro scratch wound healing assay, a transwell assay for cell migration and invasion, a gelatin zymography assay, western blotting and EMSA to examine the anti-metastatic mechanisms of PEITC and BITC in A375.S2 cells.RESULTS: Sublethal concentrations of PEITC (0, 1, 2 and 2.5 \xce\xbcM) and BITC (0, 0.5, 1 and 2 \xce\xbcM) inhibited mobility, migration and invasion of A375.S2 cells that were assayed by wound healing and Transwell filter. PEITC and BITC inhibited MMP-2 activity in A375.S2 cells, as assessed by gelatin zymography assay. Results from western blotting indicated that PEITC (2.5 \xce\xbcM) and BITC (2 \xce\xbcM) decreased the levels of p-p38 following 24 and 48 h treatment. PEITC (1-2.5 \xce\xbcM) reduced the levels of p-JNK1/2 proteins following 48-h treatment but BITC increased p-JNK1/2 levels following 24-h treatment. PEITC (2.5 \xce\xbcM) reduced the levels of p-ERK1/2 proteins following 48-h treatment but BITC (0.5-2 \xce\xbcM) increased p-ERK1/2 levels following 24- and 48-h treatment. PEITC and BITC affect cell migration and invasion of A375.S2 cells via MAPK pathway. PEITC and BITC inhibited MMP-2 activity. PEITC increased NF-\xce\xbaB expression but BITC decreased NF-\xce\xbaB expression in the nucleus. Furthermore, NF-\xce\xbaB p65 binding to DNA was decreased following 2.5 \xce\xbcM PEITC treatment, but increased following treatment with 1-2 \xce\xbcM. However, 0.5-2 \xce\xbcM BITC treatment decreased the binding of NF-\xce\xbaB to DNA in A375.S2 cells, as assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) assay.CONCLUSION: Based on these observations, we suggest that PEITC and BITC can be used as anti-metastastic agents of human melanoma cells in the future. labels: #Anticarcinogenic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Isothiocyanates#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Melanoma#NF-kappa B#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND: Mifepristone has gained great interest in its potential as a novel agent against human cancers, including prostate cancer (PCa). However, recent clinical trials using mifepristone in PCa and other cancers have been disappointing. We evaluated the in vitro and in vivo activities of mifepristone, in combination with docetaxel and enzalutamide, against bone metastatic castration-resistant PCa.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of mifepristone, alone or in combination with docetaxel or enzalutamide, on PCa cell viability, in vitro, were determined by the colorimetric assay. Intratibial model of C4-2-Luc tumors in athymic nude mice was used to evaluate the in vivo efficacy of mifepristone alone or in combination with docetaxel or enzalutamide. Tumor growth in mouse bone was assessed by serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels and radiography.RESULTS: Although mifepristone exhibits a certain degree of synergism with docetaxel or enzalutamide in cell culture, statistical analyses showed that combination regimens fail to demonstrate effectiveness in suppressing the skeletal growth of PCa and enhancing the in vivo efficacy of docetaxel or enzalutamide in athymic nude mice (p>0.05).CONCLUSION: These results provide the first pre-clinical evidence suggesting that mifepristone may not effectively inhibit bone metastatic PCa, either as a single agent or combined with standard chemotherapy and androgen-deprivation therapy. This report may raise concerns over the clinical use of mifepristone in the management of advanced PCa. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Bone Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Hormone Antagonists#Humans#Male#Mice#Mifepristone#Phenylthiohydantoin#Prostatic Neoplasms, Castration-Resistant#Taxoids#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Lactoperoxidase (LPO) is an antimicrobial protein present in milk, saliva, gastric secretions, tears and upper respiratory tract secretions. LPO constitutes an important enzyme of the human immune defense system. However, LPO has also been suggested to be involved in breast cancer etiology through production of reactive free radicals and activation of carcinogenic aromatic compounds. Aromatic compounds are generally highly lipophilic and thus accumulate in highly fatty breast tissues. The aromatic compounds 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) and 4,4'-diaminobiphenyl (BZ) are known to have carcinogenic properties. LPO catalyzes their oxidation and converts them into reactive products which bind to DNA and form adducts. These DNA adducts subsequently lead to breast cancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The crystal structure of LPO was obtained from Protein Data Bank. Structures of ABP and BZ were retrieved from PubChem database. Induced Fit Docking was performed using glide module from Schrodinger.RESULTS: The present study reports the structural binding of ABP and BZ with LPO using in silico approaches. The amino acid residues of LPO involved in the binding with the two aromatic ligands were characterized and binding energy values were calculated.CONCLUSION: Both ABP and BZ were placed in the substrate binding site present in the distal heme cavity of LPO with good affinity. The binding mode mimicked that of the natural substrate since these compounds did not disturb the water molecule that plays an important role in the oxidation reaction. Thus, the water molecule is potentially available for facilitating the subsequent activation of the aromatic amines to reactive species which may form DNA adducts leading to breast cancer. labels: #Aminobiphenyl Compounds#Binding Sites#Breast Neoplasms#Carcinogens#DNA Adducts#Female#Free Radicals#Humans#Lactoperoxidase#Models, Molecular#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Oxidation-Reduction#Protein Conformation"
b'AIM: We investigated the effect of photodynamic therapy (PDT) using radachlorin on invasion, vascular formation and apoptosis by targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in the HEC-1-A endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line.MATERIALS AND METHODS: To investigate the apoptotic pathway, we performed the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay, and western blot analysis. We also evaluated the effects of PDT on tubular capillary formation in and invasion by HEC-1-A cells with a tube formation assay, invasion assay, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) assay, and western blot analysis.RESULTS: PDT had anticancer effects on HEC-1-A through activation of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis via caspase-9 and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). PDT also inhibited tubular capillary formation in and invasion by HEC-1-A under VEGF pretreatment, that resulted from down-regulation of VEGFR2, EGFR, Ras homolog gene family/ member A (RhoA) and PGE2. These results are indicative of the specificity of radachlorin-mediated PDT to VEGF.CONCLUSION: The major advantage of radachlorin-mediated PDT is its selectivity for cancer tissue while maintaining adjacent normal endometrial tissue. Therefore, radachlorin-mediated PDT might offer high anticancer efficacy for endometrial adenocarcinoma and an especially useful modality for preserving fertility. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Drug Combinations#Endometrial Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Light#Photochemotherapy#Photosensitizing Agents#Porphyrins#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#rhoA GTP-Binding Protein'
b'BACKGROUND: A newly-synthesized derivative of renieramycin M (RM), an anticancer lead compound isolated from the blue sponge Xestospongia sp., hydroquinone 5-O-cinnamoyl ester (CIN-RM), was investigated here for its activity against non-small cell lung cancer cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity effects of CIN-RM and RM on H292 lung cancer cells were determined by the MTT assay. We also investigated the mechanism of CIN-RM-mediated apoptosis and mechanism of action of this compound by western blotting.RESULTS: CIN-RM showed more potent cytotoxicity than its parental compound (RM) against H292 lung cancer cells. At concentrations of 15-60 \xce\xbcM, CIN-RM significantly induced apoptosis by increasing expression of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and activation of caspase-3 and -9. For up-stream mechanism, CIN-RM mediated apoptosis through a p53-dependent mechanism, that consequently down-regulated anti-apoptotic B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2), while increasing the level of pro-apoptotic BCL2-associated X (BAX). In addition, phosphorylation of pro-survival protein AKT was found to be dramatically reduced.CONCLUSION: This study revealed the potential of CIN-RM for apoptosis induction and in the development of a novel anticancer agent. labels: #Apoptosis#Apoptosis Inducing Factor#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Caspase 3#Caspase 9#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Hydroquinones#Lung Neoplasms#Signal Transduction#Tetrahydroisoquinolines'
b'Colchicine is an alkaloid widely used for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, such as gout. It suppresses cell division by inhibiting mitosis. We investigated the anticancer effects of colchicine on human hypopharyngeal cancer cells and the mechanisms underlying its anticancer effects. XTT cell proliferation assay showed that colchicine inhibited the growth and proliferation of human hypopharyngeal cancer cells (FaDu and SNU1041) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Colchicine also inhibited the migration, invasion, and adhesion of hypopharyngeal cancer cells in a dose-dependent manner. The levels of mRNA expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) decreased after treatment with colchicine. Further investigation revealed that colchicine inhibited the phosphorylation of the FAK/SRC complex and paxillin. Tumor volume ratios in colchicine-treated mice (0.1 mg/kg, every 2 days for 14 days) increased less than in control mice. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing that colchicine can suppress cell invasion, migration, and adhesion through reduced expression of MMP9, the uPA system, and the FAK/SRC complex. Colchicine has the potential to prevent disease progression in hypopharyngeal cancer and may have application as an adjunctive treatment. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Colchicine#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Hypopharyngeal Neoplasms#Matrix Metalloproteinase 9#Mice#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Urokinase-Type Plasminogen Activator#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Compound Batatasin III isolated from Dendrobium draconis Rchb.f. was tested for the possible anti-cancer activities including anti-proliferative, anti-migration and invasion in human non-small lung cancer H460 cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effect of Batatasin III on viability and proliferation of H460 cells was investigated by the 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MTT) assay. Migration and invasion assays were performed. Filopodia formation was determined by phalloidin-rhodamine staining. The hallmark signaling proteins in regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), proliferation, and migration were determined by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Batatasin III at concentrations lower than 100 \xce\xbcM has no cytotoxic effects. The compound at 25-100 \xce\xbcM exhibited anti-proliferative activity at 48 h after treatment. Regarding cell motility, Batatasin III decreased migration and invasion of cells. Filopodia were found to be significantly reduced in Batatasin III treated cells. These effects correlated with the results from western blot analysis showing that the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase on Try397 (p-FAK (Try397)), the active protein kinase B (AKT), and cell division cycle 42 (CDC42) were significantly reduced. Besides, Batatasin III significantly suppressed EMT indicated by the decrease of N-cadherin and Vimentin, and up-regulation of E-cadherin.CONCLUSION: Batatasin III has anti-cancer activities; inhibits cancer migration and invasion by suppressing EMT. Our findings establish Batatasin III as a potential compound for further studies aimed at finding a better, more effective treatment approach for lung cancer. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Down-Regulation#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Focal Adhesion Kinase 1#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction#Stilbenes'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) inhibitors have recently been tested as anticancer drugs in a variety of carcinomas. Yet, there exist only few reports about HSP90 inhibitor and its thepeutic effect on liposarcoma. The therapeutic effects of HSP90 inhibitors have been mainly observed in oncogenic and tumor angiogenic signaling cascades by observing tumor growth.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the the LPS 246 liposarcoma cell line and GS-076 PDC (patient-derived cell lines). On these, we performed cell viability assays and migration assays under treatment with the HSP90 inhibitor, 17AAG. For analyzing angiogenesis factor, we used quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) after treating cells with the 17AAG inhibitor. Regarding in vivo assay, we made the tumor model in immune-deficient mouse and compared the tumor size of drug-treated group at each time point with controls. For sequestering analysis of angiogenesis factor in vivo, we performed immuno-fluorescence (IF) staining on tumor tissue.RESULTS: Through cell viability, migration assay and qPCR about angiogenesis factor, we demonstrated the anti-oncogenic and anti-angiogenic effects of an HSP90 inhibitor on a liposarcoma cell line and a patient-derived primary cell model (PDC). Also, the HSP90 inhibitor 17AAG effectively inhibited the activity of protein kinase B (AKT) and blocked extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity. Hence, 17AAG effectively disrupted the oncogenic signaling cascade and substantially inhibited tumor growth in vitro. In an LPS 863 cell xenograft mouse model treated with 17AAG, we observed that tumor size was decreasing, as well as down-regulation of the expression levels of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), CD31 and signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3).CONCLUSION: 17AAG reduced the activity of AKT, ERK, VEGF and STAT3 in oncogenic and angiogenic pathways in liposarcoma PDC models derived from patients' tissues and cancer cell lines. labels: #Angiogenesis Inhibitors#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Benzoquinones#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HSP90 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Lactams, Macrocyclic#Liposarcoma#Mice#STAT3 Transcription Factor#Signal Transduction#Tumor Burden#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanism by which agmatine sulfate induces an anti-metastatic effect in human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells, by affecting matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs).MATERIALS AND METHODS: For the experiments, we used a non-toxic concentration of agmatine, below 512 \xce\xbcM, that was determined using an MTT assay. The effect of agmatine sulfate on metastasis was gelatin zymography, western blot, immunofluorescence staining and cell invasion assay.RESULTS: Agmatine sulfate inhibited MMP-2 activity stimulated by phenazine methosulfate (PMS). Furthermore, the expression level of MMP-2 stimulated by PMS, was decreased, but the expression level of TIMP-1 was increased in the presence of agmatine sulfate. Moreover, it was observed that the expression levels of ERK and p38 were increased, but those of PI3K and Akt-1 associated with the modulation of MMP-2 were decreased in this study. Furthermore, agmatine sulfate decreased the invasion level of human fibrosarcoma cells stimulated by VEGF.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that agmatine sulfate could inhibit metastasis through inhibition of MMP-2 via the PI3K/Akt-1 signaling pathway. labels: #Agmatine#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Fibrosarcoma#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction'
b"This study was designed to evaluate the effect of ovariectomy on nutrikinetics of genistein metabolites. To characterize the time-dependent changes in genistein metabolite concentrations, we identified 13 genistein metabolites using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The nutrikinetics of the individual metabolites at different time points were analyzed. Nutrikinetic analysis showed that genistein, genistein 4'-glucuronide, genistein 7-glucuronide, 3-hydroxygenistein, and hippuric acid showed relatively high bioavailability in the sham group compared to that in the ovariectomy group, suggesting that ovariectomy likely results in lower genistein bioavailability. These results may be related to alteration of gut microbiota by ovariectomy. The relative abundance of species of the Parabacteroides, Dorea, and Butyricimonas genera, and Desulfovibrionaceae_unclassified, Lachnospiraceae_unclassified, and Rikenellaceae_unclassified families increased in the ovariectomy group while the relative abundance of 523_7_unclassified and Y52_unclassified_unclassified increased in the sham group. These results suggest that gut microbiota alteration by ovariectomy may affect genistein bioavailability. labels: #Animals#Biological Availability#Chromatography, Liquid#Female#Genistein#Mass Spectrometry#Mice#Ovariectomy"
b'Circadian clocks drive biological rhythms with a period of approximately 24 hours and keep in time with the outside world through daily resetting by environmental cues. While this external entrainment has been extensively investigated in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the role of internal systemic rhythms, including daily fluctuations in core temperature or circulating hormones remains debated. Here, we show that lactating mice, which exhibit dampened systemic rhythms, possess normal molecular clockwork but impaired rhythms in both heat shock response gene expression and electrophysiological output in their SCN. This suggests that body rhythms regulate SCN activity downstream of the clock. Mathematical modeling predicts that systemic feedback upon the SCN functions as an internal oscillator that accounts for in vivo and ex vivo observations. Thus we are able to propose a new bottom-up hierarchical organization of circadian timekeeping in mammals, based on the interaction in the SCN between clock-dependent and system-driven oscillators. labels: #Animals#Circadian Rhythm#Female#Lactation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Suprachiasmatic Nucleus'
b'INTRODUCTION: Intrathecal immunoglobulin G (IgG) and oligoclonal bands (OCBs) are the most consistent and characteristic features of Multiple Sclerosis (MS). OCBs in MS are considered products of clonally expanded B cells in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), representing the sum of contributions from B cells in the brain. However, large amounts of IgG can be eluted from MS plaques in which lymphocytes are absent, and there is no correlation between levels of plaque-associated IgG and the presence of lymphocytes. It is calculated that it would take 3.2 billion lymphocytes to generate such large amounts of intrathecal IgG (30 mg in 500 ml CSF) in MS patients. Therefore, circulating lymphocytes in CSF could only account for<0.1% of the extra IgG in MS.METHODS: We analyzed clinical laboratory parameters from sera and CSF of 115 patients including 91 patients with MS and 24 patients with other inflammatory central nervous system (CNS) disorders (IC). We investigated the relationship between oligoclonal bands, IgG antibodies, CSF cells, IgG Index, albumin, and total protein.RESULTS: MS patients have significantly elevated serum concentrations of IgG antibodies, albumin, and total protein, lower levels of lymphocytes, albumin, and total protein in the cerebrospinal fluid, but no difference in CSF IgG concentration compared to those with other inflammatory neurological disorders. Furthermore, in MS there was no linear relationship between the numbers of OCBs, CSF lymphocytes, CSF IgG, and IgG Index, and between serum IgG and serum albumin, but significant correlation between IgG in CSF and serum, and between CSF IgG and CSF albumin.CONCLUSION: There are unique differences between MS and patients with other inflammatory neurological disorders. Our data suggest that in MS patient (a) B cells and their products in the CSF may not be the sole source of intrathecal IgG; (b) oligoclonal bands may not be the products of single B cell clones in the CSF; and (c) there is a strong connection between serum components in the peripheral circulation and the central nervous system. labels: #Adult#Blood Proteins#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Lymphocytes#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Oligoclonal Bands'
b'Global analyses of bird communities along elevation gradients suggest that bird diversity on arid mountains is primarily limited by water availability, not temperature or altitude. However, the mechanism by which water availability, and subsequently primary productivity, increases bird diversity is still unclear. Here we evaluate two possible mechanisms from species-energy theory. The more individuals hypothesis proposes that a higher availability of resources increases the total number of individuals that can be supported, and therefore the greater number of species that will be sampled. By contrast, the more specialization hypothesis proposes that increasing resource availability will permit specialists to exploit otherwise rare resources, thus increasing total diversity. We used 5 years of surveys of grassland songbird communities along an elevational gradient in British Columbia, Canada, to distinguish between these hypotheses. Vegetation changed markedly in composition along the gradient and contrary to the expectations of the more specialization hypothesis, bird community composition was remarkably constant. However, both total abundance and species richness of birds increased with increasing water availability to plants. When we used rarefaction to correct species richness for differences in total abundance, much of the increase in bird diversity was lost, consistent with the expectations of the more individuals hypothesis. Furthermore, high species richness was associated with reductions in territory size of common bird species, rather than the fine-scale spatial partitioning of the landscape. This suggests that bird diversity increases when greater resource availability allows higher densities rather than greater habitat specialization. These results help explain a pervasive global pattern in bird diversity on arid mountains, and suggest that in such landscapes conservation of grassland birds is strongly linked to climate and hydrology. labels: #Animals#Biodiversity#British Columbia#Grassland#Songbirds'
b'There are differences in sleep duration between Blacks/African-Americans and Whites/European-Americans. Recently, we found differences between these ancestry groups in the circadian system, such as circadian period and the magnitude of phase shifts. Here we document the role of ancestry on sleep and cognitive performance before and after a 9-h advance in the sleep/wake schedule similar to flying east or having a large advance in sleep times due to shiftwork, both of which produce extreme circadian misalignment. Non-Hispanic African and European-Americans (N = 20 and 17 respectively, aged 21-43 years) were scheduled to four baseline days each with 8 h time in bed based on their habitual sleep schedule. This sleep/wake schedule was then advanced 9 h earlier for three days. Sleep was monitored using actigraphy. During the last two baseline/aligned days and the first two advanced/misaligned days, beginning 2 h after waking, cognitive performance was measured every 3 h using the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) test battery. Mixed model ANOVAs assessed the effects of ancestry (African-American or European-American) and condition (baseline/aligned or advanced/misaligned) on sleep and cognitive performance. There was decreased sleep and impaired performance in both ancestry groups during the advanced/misaligned days compared to the baseline/aligned days. In addition, African-Americans obtained less sleep than European-Americans, especially on the first two days of circadian misalignment. Cognitive performance did not differ between African-Americans and European-Americans during baseline days. During the two advanced/misaligned days, however, African-Americans tended to perform slightly worse compared to European-Americans, particularly at times corresponding to the end of the baseline sleep episodes. Advancing the sleep/wake schedule, creating extreme circadian misalignment, had a greater impact on the sleep of African-Americans than European-Americans. Ancestry differences in sleep appear to be exacerbated when the sleep/wake schedule is advanced, which may have implications for individuals undertaking shiftwork and transmeridian travel. labels: #Adult#African Americans#European Continental Ancestry Group#Humans#Sleep#Sleep Disorders, Circadian Rhythm#Wakefulness#Young Adult'
b'Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) lung disease is increasing globally. Although the etiological epidemiology of NTM is different across regions, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) is the leading cause of NTM lung disease in most countries, including mainland Japan. Okinawa is located in the southernmost region of Japan and is the only prefecture categorized as a subtropical region in Japan, it is therefore likely the etiological epidemiology of NTM lung disease is different from mainland Japan. From 2009 to 2015, the medical records of patients, with respiratory specimens positive for NTMs, visiting or admitted to two Okinawan hospitals, were retrospectively analyzed. NTM lung disease cases were defined according to the American Thoracic Society criteria and patient epidemiology and clinical information were evaluated. Results indicate four hundred sixteen patients had bacterial cultures positive for NTM. The most common NTM was M. abscessus complex (MABC) (n = 127; 30.5%), followed by M. intracellulare (n = 85; 20.4%). NTM lung disease was diagnosed in 114 patients. Of these cases, MABC was most common (n = 41; 36.0%), followed by M. intracellulare (n = 31; 27.2%). Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and tracheostomy patients were more likely to develop MABC than MAC lung disease. Multivariate analysis showed a probable association between COPD and MABC lung disease. Chest computed tomography (CT) evaluation revealed bronchiectasis, nodules, and consolidation were less frequently observed in MABC patients compared with MAC patients. Our data suggests Okinawa may be one of the few places where MABC is the predominant pathogen causing NTM lung disease and our results add new insight to MABC lung disease, which is not yet well understood. labels: #Hospitals#Humans#Japan#Mycobacterium Infections, Nontuberculous#Radiography, Thoracic#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Tropical Climate'
b'Depressive pathology, which includes both heightened negative affect (e.g., anxiety) and reduced positive affect (e.g., anhedonia), is known to be associated with sub-optimal decision-making, particularly in uncertain environments. Here, we use a computational approach to quantify and disambiguate how individual differences in these affective measures specifically relate to different aspects of learning and decision-making in reward-based choice behavior. Fifty-three individuals with a range of depressed mood completed a two-armed bandit task, in which they choose between two arms with fixed but unknown reward rates. The decision-making component, which chooses among options based on current expectations about reward rates, is modeled by two different decision policies: a learning-independent Win-stay/Lose-shift (WSLS) policy that ignores all previous experiences except the last trial, and Softmax, which prefers the arm with the higher expected reward. To model the learning component for the Softmax choice policy, we use a Bayesian inference model, which updates estimated reward rates based on the observed history of trial outcomes. Softmax with Bayesian learning better fits the behavior of 55% of the participants, while the others are better fit by a learning-independent WSLS strategy. Among Softmax "users", those with higher anhedonia are less likely to choose the option estimated to be most rewarding. Moreover, the Softmax parameter mediates the inverse relationship between anhedonia and overall monetary gains. On the other hand, among WSLS "users", higher state anxiety correlates with increasingly better ability of WSLS, relative to Softmax, to explain subjects\' trial-by-trial choices. In summary, there is significant variability among individuals in their reward-based, exploratory decision-making, and this variability is at least partly mediated in a very specific manner by affective attributes, such as hedonic tone and state anxiety. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anhedonia#Anxiety#Decision Making#Depression#Female#Humans#Male#Reward#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: The management of childhood infections remains inadequate in resource-limited countries, resulting in high mortality and irrational use of antimicrobials. Current disease management tools, such as the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) algorithm, rely solely on clinical signs and have not made use of available point-of-care tests (POCTs) that can help to identify children with severe infections and children in need of antibiotic treatment. e-POCT is a novel electronic algorithm based on current evidence; it guides clinicians through the entire consultation and recommends treatment based on a few clinical signs and POCT results, some performed in all patients (malaria rapid diagnostic test, hemoglobin, oximeter) and others in selected subgroups only (C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, glucometer). The objective of this trial was to determine whether the clinical outcome of febrile children managed by the e-POCT tool was non-inferior to that of febrile children managed by a validated electronic algorithm derived from IMCI (ALMANACH), while reducing the proportion with antibiotic prescription.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We performed a randomized (at patient level, blocks of 4), controlled non-inferiority study among children aged 2-59 months presenting with acute febrile illness to 9 outpatient clinics in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. In parallel, routine care was documented in 2 health centers. The primary outcome was the proportion of clinical failures (development of severe symptoms, clinical pneumonia on/after day 3, or persistent symptoms at day 7) by day 7 of follow-up. Non-inferiority would be declared if the proportion of clinical failures with e-POCT was no worse than the proportion of clinical failures with ALMANACH, within statistical variability, by a margin of 3%. The secondary outcomes included the proportion with antibiotics prescribed on day 0, primary referrals, and severe adverse events by day 30 (secondary hospitalizations and deaths). We enrolled 3,192 patients between December 2014 and February 2016 into the randomized study; 3,169 patients (e-POCT: 1,586; control [ALMANACH]: 1,583) completed the intervention and day 7 follow-up. Using e-POCT, in the per-protocol population, the absolute proportion of clinical failures was 2.3% (37/1,586), as compared with 4.1% (65/1,583) in the ALMANACH arm (risk difference of clinical failure -1.7, 95% CI -3.0, -0.5), meeting the prespecified criterion for non-inferiority. In a non-prespecified superiority analysis, we observed a 43% reduction in the relative risk of clinical failure when using e-POCT compared to ALMANACH (risk ratio [RR]0.57, 95% CI 0.38, 0.85, p = 0.005). The proportion of severe adverse events was 0.6% in the e-POCT arm compared with 1.5% in the ALMANACH arm (RR 0.42, 95% CI 0.20, 0.87, p = 0.02). The proportion of antibiotic prescriptions was substantially lower, 11.5% compared to 29.7% (RR 0.39, 95% CI 0.33, 0.45, p<0.001). Using e-POCT, the most common indication for antibiotic prescription was severe disease (57%, 103/182 prescriptions), while it was non-severe respiratory infections using the control algorithm (ALMANACH) (70%, 330/470 prescriptions). The proportion of clinical failures among the 544 children in the routine care cohort was 4.6% (25/544); 94.9% (516/544) of patients received antibiotics on day 0, and 1.1% (6/544) experienced severe adverse events. e-POCT achieved a 49% reduction in the relative risk of clinical failure compared to routine care (RR 0.51, 95% CI 0.31, 0.84, p = 0.007) and lowered antibiotic prescriptions to 11.5% from 94.9% (p<0.001). Though this safety study was an important first step to evaluate e-POCT, its true utility should be evaluated through future implementation studies since adherence to the algorithm will be an important factor in making use of e-POCT's advantages in terms of clinical outcome and antibiotic prescription.CONCLUSIONS: e-POCT, an innovative electronic algorithm using host biomarker POCTs, including C-reactive protein and procalcitonin, has the potential to improve the clinical outcome of children with febrile illnesses while reducing antibiotic use through improved identification of children with severe infections, and better targeting of children in need of antibiotic prescription.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02225769. labels: #Age of Onset#Algorithms#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Biomarkers#Child, Preschool#Clinical Decision-Making#Communicable Diseases#Decision Support Techniques#Diagnosis, Computer-Assisted#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Fever#Heart Rate#Humans#Infant#Male#Mobile Applications#Nutritional Status#Patient Readmission#Patient Selection#Point-of-Care Systems#Point-of-Care Testing#Predictive Value of Tests#Reproducibility of Results#Respiration#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Smartphone#Tanzania"
b'There are limited real-world data on prevalence and predictors of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) prolongation beyond one year after acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We have explored such issue in the START ANTIPLATELET Registry, which is a prospective, observational, multicenter, Italian registry performed in seven Italian cardiology institutions including patients admitted for ACS and followed up to one year. Out of a total population of 840 ACS patients, 596 patients had completed 12-month follow-up being on DAPT. Decision to prolong DAPT beyond one year was taken in 79 patients (13%), whereas in 517 patients DAPT was stopped. The strongest predictors of DAPT continuation were a new cardiovascular events after the index admission event (OR 3.3, 95% CI 1.4-7.7), no bleeding complications (OR 3.2, 95% CI 1.2-8.3) and no anemia during one-year follow-up (OR 2.6, 95% CI 1.1-5.9); other independent predictors were renal failure (OR 2.5, 95% CI 1.3-5.0) and peripheral artery disease (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.1-3.0). The choice of DAPT prolongation was not correlated with younger ager, presence of diabetes mellitus, coronary angioplasty as initial treatment strategy or type of implanted stent (drug-eluting vs bare metal). In conclusion, this study provides a real-world snapshot on the factors influencing the option to continue DAPT beyond one year after ACS; a low bleeding risk seems to influence the choice to prolong DAPT more than a high ischemic risk. labels: #Acute Coronary Syndrome#Aged#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Italy#Male#Middle Aged#Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors#Registries'
b'To identify suitable cell lines for a mimetic system of in vivo blood-brain barrier (BBB) for drug permeability assessment, we characterized two immortalized cell lines, ECV304 and bEnd3 in the respect of the tightness, tight junction proteins, P-glycoprotein (P-gp) function and discriminative brain penetration. The ECV304 monoculture achieved higher transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) and lower permeability to Lucifer yellow than bEnd3. However, co-culture with rat glioma C6 cells impaired the integrity of ECV304 and bEnd3 cell layers perhaps due to the heterogeneity among C6 cells in inducing BBB characteristics. The immunostaining of ZO-1 delivered distinct bands along cell borders on both cell lines while those of occludin and claudin-5 were diffused and weak. P-gp functionality was only proved in bEnd3 by Rhodamine 123 (R123) uptake assay. A permeability test of reference compounds displayed a similar rank order (digoxin<R123<quinidine, verapamil<propranolol) in ECV304 and bEnd3 cells. In comparison with bEnd3, ECV304 developed tighter barrier for the passage of reference compounds and higher discrimination between transcellular and paracellular transport. However, the monoculture models of ECV304 and bEnd3 fail to achieve the sufficient tightness of in vitro BBB permeability models with high TEER and evident immunostaining of tight junction proteins. Further strategies to enhance the paracellular tightness of both cell lines to mimic in vivo BBB tight barrier deserve to be conducted. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B, Member 1#Animals#Blood-Brain Barrier#Cell Line, Transformed#Coculture Techniques#In Vitro Techniques#Permeability#Rats'
b'A fully-automated method based on graph shortest path, graph cut and neutrosophic (NS) sets is presented for fluid segmentation in OCT volumes for exudative age related macular degeneration (EAMD) subjects. The proposed method includes three main steps: 1) The inner limiting membrane (ILM) and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) layers are segmented using proposed methods based on graph shortest path in NS domain. A flattened RPE boundary is calculated such that all three types of fluid regions, intra-retinal, sub-retinal and sub-RPE, are located above it. 2) Seed points for fluid (object) and tissue (background) are initialized for graph cut by the proposed automated method. 3) A new cost function is proposed in kernel space, and is minimized with max-flow/min-cut algorithms, leading to a binary segmentation. Important properties of the proposed steps are proven and quantitative performance of each step is analyzed separately. The proposed method is evaluated using a publicly available dataset referred as Optima and a local dataset from the UMN clinic. For fluid segmentation in 2D individual slices, the proposed method outperforms the previously proposed methods by 18%, 21% with respect to the dice coefficient and sensitivity, respectively, on the Optima dataset, and by 16%, 11% and 12% with respect to the dice coefficient, sensitivity and precision, respectively, on the local UMN dataset. Finally, for 3D fluid volume segmentation, the proposed method achieves true positive rate (TPR) and false positive rate (FPR) of 90% and 0.74%, respectively, with a correlation of 95% between automated and expert manual segmentations using linear regression analysis. labels: #Automation#Humans#Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Wet Macular Degeneration'
b'BACKGROUND: Depression screening and examination in Indonesia are highly challenging due to the disproportionately low number of mental health professionals in comparison to the Indonesian population. Self-report questionnaires on depression are cost-effective and time-efficient. The current study investigates the psychometric properties of the Indonesian Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology Self Report (IDS-SR).METHODS: The participants were 904 Indonesians (aged 16-61; 50.2% female), recruited via an online survey using Qualtrics. Confirmatory factor analysis of the one-factor, three-factor, and four-factor model were explored. Convergent and divergent validity of the total score of the Indonesian IDS-SR and each factor were examined, as well as the Cronbach\'s Alpha reliability. In addition, an optimal cut-off score for the Indonesian IDS-SR was established using ROC curve analysis.RESULTS: The three-factor model of "cognitive/mood", "anxiety/arousal", and "sleep disturbance" was the best fit with the Indonesian IDS-SR data. Convergent and divergent validity were good. Cronbach\'s Alpha reliability was excellent for the total score, good for the factors "cognitive/mood" and "anxiety/arousal", but insufficient for the factor "sleep disturbance". The optimal cut-off score of the Indonesian IDS-SR was 14, with 87% sensitivity and 86% specificity.CONCLUSIONS: As a multifactorial instrument to measure depression that has good validity and reliability, the Indonesian IDS-SR can be used to assess depressive symptoms for the purpose of research and clinical practice. The optimal cut-off score of the Indonesian IDS-SR is in accordance with the internationally used cut-off score. labels: #Depression#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Humans#Indonesia#Psychometrics#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'Purpose: We quantified retinal and choriocapillaris microvascular changes in healthy control eyes and different stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR) using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA).Methods: This retrospective cross-sectional study included 137 eyes of 86 patients with different stages of DR and 44 eyes of 26 healthy age-matched controls. Participants were imaged with a commercial OCTA device (RTVue-XR Avanti). We analyzed the superficial (SCP) and deep (DCP) retinal capillary plexus, the full retina, and choriocapillaris for the following OCTA parameters: foveal avascular zone, vessel density, percent area of nonperfusion (PAN), and adjusted flow index (AFI). We adjusted for age, sex, and the correlation between eyes of the same study participant in our statistical models.Results: All OCTA parameters showed a significant linear correlation with DR severity (P<0.05) in the univariate models except for AFI measured in the SCP and these correlations remained significant after correcting for covariates. Compared to the other capillary layers, the AFI at the DCP decreased significantly with DR severity. When comparing individual disease severity groups as categories, eyes of subjects with diabetes without DR had significantly increased PAN and AFI in the SCP compared to healthy subjects (P<0.05).Conclusions: Retinal and choriocapillaris vascular nonperfusion in OCTA is correlated significantly with disease severity in eyes with DR. Higher flow in the SCP may be an early marker of diabetic microvascular changes before clinical signs of DR. The steep decline of blood flow in the DCP with increasing DR severity suggests that alterations at the DCP warrant further investigation. labels: #Blood Flow Velocity#Capillaries#Choroid#Ciliary Arteries#Computed Tomography Angiography#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retinal Neovascularization#Retinal Vessels#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Objectives: We implemented a policy of reflex serotonin-release assay (SRA) testing for all patients with a positive heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) immunoassay.Methods: We identified all patients who had SRA testing sent as a consequence of a positive HIT immunoassay test. We reviewed charts of patients to calculate the 4Ts clinical score, determined the effect of testing on clinical management, and documented the change in utilization of direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs).Results: The likelihood of a positive SRA varied with the optical density (OD) of the immunoassay. The performance of the immunoglobulin G (IgG)-specific and polytypic enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was not statistically different. Both OD and 4Ts score correlated with the likelihood of a positive SRA but demonstrated poor specificity. Discontinuation of DTIs in patients with negative SRAs resulted in decreased drug utilization.Conclusions: The IgG-specific HIT immunoassay OD correlates with the likelihood of a positive SRA but does not achieve high specificity. The reflex testing algorithm allows for definitive classification of patients, and the cost of such a reflex testing program may be offset by decreased utilization of DTIs. labels: #Algorithms#Anticoagulants#Hematologic Tests#Heparin#Humans#Immunoassay#Platelet Activation#Serotonin#Thrombocytopenia'
b"Purpose: Recent evidence has suggested a potential association between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and glaucoma and found significant deposition of amyloid-\xce\xb2 (A\xce\xb2) and Tau protein in the retinas of glaucoma patients. However, no coherent finding has emerged regarding the AD-like changes in the central visual system (CVS). Studies confirming the presence of A\xce\xb2 and Tau neuropathology are warranted to identify the underlying mechanism that contributes to the visual impairment observed in glaucoma.Methods: A chronic glaucoma model was established in rhesus monkeys. The retina, optic nerve, CVS including the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex (V1), and cognitive areas including the hippocampus (Hpp) were evaluated. A\xce\xb2 1-42 and phosphorylated-Tau (p-Tau) were tested in the aforementioned structure using immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and ELISA, and the neuritic plaques and argyrophilic structures/neurofilaments were observed using silver staining and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).Results: Immunohistochemistry revealed positive A\xce\xb2 and p-Tau labeling in the LGN. According to Western blotting assay and ELISA, A\xce\xb2 and p-Tau were present in the LGN. A\xce\xb2 also was expressed weakly in the primary visual cortex. In contrast, the hippocampus, which is the most severely affected region in AD, showed no positive labeling. Structurally, silver staining and TEM revealed neuritic plaques and argyrophilic structures/neurofibrillary tangles, in the LGN.Conclusions: For the first time to our knowledge, these data collectively establish the existence of hallmark AD-like pathologies in the glaucomatous LGN. Our results may provide new targets for developing research therapies that will enhance neuroprotection in glaucoma patients. labels: #Amyloid beta-Peptides#Animals#Blotting, Western#Disease Models, Animal#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Geniculate Bodies#Glaucoma#Hippocampus#Intraocular Pressure#Macaca mulatta#Male#Neurofibrillary Tangles#Optic Disk#Optic Nerve Diseases#Phosphorylation#Visual Cortex#tau Proteins"
b'Purpose: Adenocarcinomas or adenomas derived from pigmented ciliary epithelium (APCE) are exceptionally rare ocular tumors. These tumors have pigmented and epithelioid features, and some APCEs are negative for keratin markers and positive for melanocytic markers. It is especially difficult to distinguish APCEs from uveal melanoma (UM). Accordingly, we examined protein expression and genetic mutations associated with APCE to facilitate diagnosis.Methods: Five APCE and 11 UM samples were obtained from patients during surgical resection at our institute. APCE and UM ocular structures were compared comprehensively. Protein expression and genetic alterations involved in malignant melanoma were evaluated.Results: SOX10 was expressed diffusely in all 11 UMs and in surrounding uveal or choroidal melanocytes, but not in the APCEs or nontumorous pigmented epithelia. Additionally, the expression patterns of cytokeratins and melanocytic markers differed between UMs and APCEs. We identified BRAF V600E mutations in four of five APCE samples, but not in the 11 UM samples. Moreover, GNAQ or GNA11 mutations were found in 10 of the 11 UM samples, but not in APCE samples. NRAS mutations were not observed in either tumor group examined.Conclusions: APCE is a separate entity distinguished from UM by the absence of SOX10 expression and presence of the BRAF V600E mutation. These results have implications for diagnosis, providing a means to distinguish between UM and APCE. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenoma#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Biomarkers, Tumor#Ciliary Body#DNA Mutational Analysis#Female#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits, Gq-G11#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Male#Melanocytes#Melanoma#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Middle Aged#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Pigment Epithelium of Eye#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#SOXE Transcription Factors#Uveal Neoplasms'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the prognosis in Chinese patients with conjunctival melanoma and determine its predictors. Further, to explore the racial differences in clinical characteristics and outcomes between Chinese and Caucasian patients.Methods: This cohort study included 57 eyes of 57 consecutive patients with pathologically verified conjunctival melanoma between 1996 and 2016. Medical records were reviewed for factors associated with the local recurrence, metastasis, and tumor-related mortality. All eligible patients were followed up for these three outcome measures. The demographic data, clinical characteristics, and outcomes were compared between Chinese and Caucasian patients.Results: The mean follow-up period was 52.2 \xc2\xb1 49.4 months. Among the total 57 patients, 29 (51%) patients experienced local recurrence. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year recurrence rate was 31.0%, 59.7%, and 66.4%, respectively. Treatment complications detected in the follow-up included dry eye (32, 56.1%), irregular eyelid margin (25, 43.9%), eyelid retraction (18, 31.6%), blepharoptosis (9, 15.8%), mixed pigmentation of the tarsus reconstructed by mucosal membrane graft, corneal opacities (6, 10.5%), and symblepharon (2, 3.5%). Twenty (35%) patients developed metastasis. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year metastasis rate was 16.7%, 38.7%, and 50.9%, respectively. Fourteen (25%) patients died of conjunctival melanoma, with a median survival time of 24 months. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year tumor-related mortality was 3.8%, 30.5%, and 37.4%, respectively. Tumor hemorrhage is an independent risk factor for tumor-related death (hazard ratio [HR]: 18.81, P = 0.01) and metastasis (HR: 4.57, P = 0.02). Significant differences were noted between Chinese and Caucasians patients from America, Germany, and England in demographics, clinical characteristics, and outcomes. Compared to Caucasians, Chinese patients tended to have more male cases (P<0.01) and to be younger (P = 0.03). At initial presentation, more Chinese patients had de novo tumor origin (P<0.01), epithelioid cell type (P<0.01), nonbulbar tumor location (P<0.01), greater basal diameter (P = 0.04), multifocal tumor (P<0.01), feeder vessels (P<0.01), eyelid (P<0.01) and orbit involvement (P<0.01), and advanced T stages (P<0.01). Over a similar follow-up period with Caucasians patients (52.2 vs. 52 months, P = 0.97), a significantly larger proportion of Chinese patients exhibited eyelid invasion (P = 0.04) and orbital invasion (P<0.01) at follow-up, local recurrence (P<0.01), metastasis (P<0.01), and tumor-related death (P<0.01).Conclusions: Conjunctival melanoma is a rare malignancy with great potential for mortality in Chinese. Special attention should be paid to patients with tumor hemorrhage. Compared to Caucasians, Chinese patients exhibit more aggressive clinical signs with compromised prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#China#Cohort Studies#Conjunctival Neoplasms#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To investigate the impact of different gas mixtures (hyperoxia, hypoxia, and hypercapnia) on the optic nerve head (ONH) and choroidal (Ch) hemodynamics.Methods: Twenty-three healthy subjects (28 \xc2\xb1 6 years) took part in the study. Variations in inspired oxygen and carbon dioxide fraction were produced by a gas mixing device. Arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) was measured continuously using a transcutaneous sensor and end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure by capnography. The experiment comprised three successive periods: 3-minute baseline (room air breathing), 15-minute gas mixture inhalation (normocapnic hypoxia, hypercapnia, or hyperoxia), and 15-minute recovery (room air breathing). Laser Doppler flowmeter parameters-velocity (VEL), volume (VOL), and flow (BF) of red blood cells-were measured. Two-way ANOVAs were performed for statistical analysis.Results: In response to hyperoxia, ONHBF significantly decreased by -18% \xc2\xb1 6% (P = 0.04) from baseline, due to significant changes in VEL (-12% \xc2\xb1 3% P = 0.0002). During hypoxia at 85% SpO2, ONH VEL increased by +12% \xc2\xb1 3% (P = 0.0009), whereas VOL and BF did not change significantly. ChBF significantly increased by +7% \xc2\xb1 2% (P = 0.004) in response to hypoxia, due to significant changes in VEL +5% \xc2\xb1 2% (P = 0.03). Both Ch and ONHBFs did not vary significantly in response to hypercapnia.Conclusions: The magnitude of the blood flow response is the most significant during hyperoxia for ONH and hypoxia for ChBF. For ONHBF, a 37% difference between hyperoxia and hypoxia can be useful when vasoreactivity to O2 will be tested in patients. labels: #Adult#Blood Flow Velocity#Blood Pressure#Carbon Dioxide#Choroid#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Hemodynamics#Humans#Hypercapnia#Hyperoxia#Hypoxia#Intraocular Pressure#Laser-Doppler Flowmetry#Male#Optic Disk#Oxygen#Regional Blood Flow'
b'Purpose: Migraine, particularly with aura, has been associated with ocular and systemic ischemic complications, but there are limited data on the ocular vasculature in migraine. We used optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) to assess perfusion of the macula and optic nerve in migraine patients, with (MA) and without (MO) aura, compared to healthy controls (HC).Methods: We recruited 15 MA (mean age 42 years), 12 MO (mean age 46 years), and 22 HC (mean age 39 years) participants from neurology and neuro-ophthalmology clinics. Participants underwent optical coherence tomography and 3 \xc3\x97 3 mm OCTA of the macula and optic nerve. Foveal avascular zone area was automatically measured using AngioVue software, and vessel density was calculated as blood vessel length divided by scan area (mm-1) after skeletonization of OCTA images.Results: On macular OCTA, MA participants had an enlarged foveal avascular zone area when compared with HC (0.300 \xc2\xb1 0.019 vs. 0.220 \xc2\xb1 0.066 mm2, P = 0.006). In addition, superficial foveal vessel density was decreased in MA participants when compared with MO participants (7.8 \xc2\xb1 0.31 vs. 9.3 \xc2\xb1 0.44, P = 0.04) and HC (7.8 \xc2\xb1 0.31 vs. 9.4 \xc2\xb1 0.21 mm-1, P = 0.002). On optic nerve OCTA, the MA participants had reduced superior peripapillary vessel density when compared with the MO participants (12.0 \xc2\xb1 0.45 vs. 14.0 \xc2\xb1 0.38 mm-1, P = 0.031) and HC (12.0 \xc2\xb1 0.45 vs. 14.1 \xc2\xb1 0.53 mm-1, P = 0.035). There were no significant differences between the MO and HC groups.Conclusions: Migraine with, but not without, aura was associated with foveal and peripapillary vascular decrements, which may possibly mediate increased risk of ocular and systemic vascular complications in these patients. OCTA could potentially be useful as a biomarker for migraine with aura. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Fovea Centralis#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Migraine with Aura#Migraine without Aura#Optic Disk#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult'
b"Background and Aims: Despite the importance of growth [CO 2 ] and water availability for tree growth and survival, little information is available on how the interplay of these two factors can shape intraspecific patterns of functional variation in tree species, particularly for conifers. The main objective of the study was to test whether the range of realized drought tolerance within the species can be affected by elevated [CO 2 ].Methods: Intraspecific variability in leaf gas exchange, growth rate and other leaf functional traits were studied in clones of maritime pine. A factorial experiment including water availability, growth [CO 2 ] and four different genotypes was conducted in growth rooms. A 'water deficit' treatment was imposed by applying a cycle of progressive soil water depletion and recovery at two levels of growth [CO 2 ]: 'ambient [CO 2 ]' (aCO 2 400\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol mol -1 ) and 'elevated [CO 2 ]' (eCO 2 800\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol mol -1 ).Key Results: eCO2 had a neutral effect on the impact of drought on growth and leaf gas exchange of the most drought-sensitive genotypes while it aggravated the impact of drought on the most drought-tolerant genotypes at aCO2. Thus, eCO2 attenuated genotypic differences in drought tolerance as compared with those observed at aCO2. Genotypic variation at both levels of growth [CO2] was found in specific leaf area and leaf nitrogen content but not in other physiological leaf traits such as intrinsic water use efficiency and leaf osmotic potential. eCO2 increased \xce\x94 13 C but had no significant effect on \xce\xb4 18 O. This effect did not interact with the impact of drought, which increased \xce\xb4 18 O and decreased \xce\x94 13 C. Nevertheless, correlations between \xce\x94 13 C and \xce\xb4 18 O indicated the non-stomatal component of water use efficiency in this species can be particularly sensitive to drought.Conclusions: Evidence from this study suggests elevated [CO 2 ] can modify current ranges of drought tolerance within tree species. labels: #Carbon Dioxide#Chlorophyll#Dehydration#Genotype#Nitrogen#Osmotic Pressure#Photosynthesis#Pinus#Plant Leaves"
b"Background and Aims: Floating sweet-grass ( Glyceria fluitans ) can form aerial as well as floating leaves, and these both possess superhydrophobic cuticles, so that gas films are retained when submerged. However, only the adaxial side of the floating leaves is superhydrophobic, so the abaxial side is directly in contact with the water. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of these different gas films on underwater net photosynthesis ( P N ) and dark respiration ( R D ).Methods: Evolution of O 2 was used to measure underwater P N in relation to dissolved CO 2 on leaf segments with or without gas films, and O 2 microelectrodes were used to assess cuticle resistance of floating leaves to O 2 uptake in the dark.Key Results: The adaxial side of aerial leaves was more hydrophobic than the abaxial side and also initially retained a thicker gas film when submerged. Underwater P N vs. dissolved CO 2 of aerial leaf segments with gas films had a K m of 172\xe2\x80\x89mmol CO 2 m -3 and a P max of 7\xc2\xb71\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol O 2 m -2 s -1 , and the leaf gas films reduced the apparent resistance to CO 2 uptake 12-fold. Underwater P N of floating leaves measured at 700\xe2\x80\x89mmol CO 2 m -3 was 1\xc2\xb75-fold higher than P N of aerial leaves. The floating leaves had significantly lower cuticle resistance to dark O 2 uptake on the wettable abaxial side compared with the superhydrophobic adaxial side.Conclusions: Glyceria fluitans showed high rates of underwater P N and these were obtained at environmentally relevant CO 2 concentrations. It appears that the floating leaves possess both aquatic and terrestrial properties and thus have 'the best of both worlds' so that floating leaves are particularly adapted to situations where the plant is partially submerged and occasionally experiences complete submergence. labels: #Aquatic Organisms#Carbon Dioxide#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Oxygen#Photosynthesis#Plant Leaves#Poaceae"
b'Background: Combining bevacizumab with frontline chemotherapy statistically significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) but not overall survival (OS) in the phase III GOG-0218 trial. Evaluation of candidate biomarkers was an exploratory objective.Methods: Patients with stage III (incompletely resected) or IV ovarian cancer were randomly assigned to receive six chemotherapy cycles with placebo or bevacizumab followed by single-agent placebo or bevacizumab. Five candidate tumor biomarkers were assessed by immunohistochemistry. The biomarker-evaluable population was categorized into high or low biomarker-expressing subgroups using median and quartile cutoffs. Associations between biomarker expression and efficacy were analyzed. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: The biomarker-evaluable population (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89980) comprising 78.5% of the intent-to-treat population had representative baseline characteristics and efficacy outcomes. Neither prognostic nor predictive associations were seen for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2, neuropilin-1, or MET. Higher microvessel density (MVD; measured by CD31) showed predictive value for PFS (hazard ratio [HR] for bevacizumab vs placebo = 0.40, 95% confidence interval [CI]= 0.29 to 0.54, vs 0.80, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.59 to 1.07, for high vs low MVD, respectively, P interaction = .003) and OS (HR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.67, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.51 to 0.88, vs 1.10, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.84 to 1.44, P interaction = .02). Tumor VEGF-A was not predictive for PFS but showed potential predictive value for OS using a third-quartile cutoff for high VEGF-A expression.Conclusions: These retrospective tumor biomarker analyses suggest a positive association between density of vascular endothelial cells (the predominant cell type expressing VEGF receptors) and tumor VEGF-A levels and magnitude of bevacizumab effect in ovarian cancer. The potential predictive value of MVD (CD31) and tumor VEGF-A is consistent with a mechanism of action driven by VEGF-A signaling blockade. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Angiogenesis Inhibitors#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bevacizumab#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carboplatin#Confidence Intervals#Disease-Free Survival#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Microvessels#Middle Aged#Neuropilin-1#Ovarian Neoplasms#Paclitaxel#Platelet Endothelial Cell Adhesion Molecule-1#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Retrospective Studies#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2'
b'Background: Early-stage breast cancer is among the most prevalent and costly malignancies treated in the American health care system. Adjuvant radiotherapy after lumpectomy represents a substantial portion of breast cancer expenditures. The relative value of novel radiotherapeutic approaches such as intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) and hypofractionated whole breast irradiation (HF-WBI) compared with conventionally fractionated whole breast irradiation (CF-WBI) is unknown. Therefore, we used prospectively collected outcomes from randomized clinical trials (RCTs) to compare the cost-effectiveness of these approaches.Methods: We constructed a decision-analytic model that followed women who were treated with lumpectomy for early-stage breast cancer. Recurrence, mortality, complication rates, and utilities (five-year radiation-associated quality of life scores), were extracted from RCTs. Costs were based on Medicare reimbursement rates. Cost-effectiveness from societal and health care sector perspectives was estimated considering two scenarios-the first assumes that radiation-associated disutility persists five years after treatment, and the second assumes that disutility discontinues. Lifetime outcomes were summarized using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses evaluated the robustness of the results.Results: HF-WBI dominated CF-WBI (ie, resulted in higher quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs] and lower cost) in all scenarios. HF-WBI also had a greater likelihood of cost-effectiveness compared with IORT; under a societal perspective that assumes that radiation-associated disutility persists, HF-WBI results in an ICER of $17\xe2\x80\x89024 per QALY compared with IORT with a probability of cost-effectiveness of 80% at the $100\xe2\x80\x89000 per QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. If radiation-associated disutility is assumed to discontinue, the ICER is lower ($11\xe2\x80\x89461/QALY), resulting in an even higher (83%) probability of relative cost-effectiveness. The ICER was most sensitive to the probability of metastasis and treatment cost.Conclusions: For women with early-stage breast cancer requiring adjuvant radiotherapy, HF-WBI is cost-effective compared with CF-WBI and IORT. labels: #Aged#Breast Neoplasms#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Dose Hypofractionation#Female#Humans#Intraoperative Care#Markov Chains#Mastectomy, Segmental#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Quality of Life#Quality-Adjusted Life Years#Radiotherapy#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Background: Childhood cancer survivors treated with chest-directed radiotherapy have substantially elevated risk for developing breast cancer. Although genetic susceptibility to breast cancer in the general population is well studied, large-scale evaluation of breast cancer susceptibility after chest-directed radiotherapy for childhood cancer is lacking.Methods: We conducted a genome-wide association study of breast cancer in female survivors of childhood cancer, pooling two cohorts with detailed treatment data and systematic, long-term follow-up: the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study and St. Jude Lifetime Cohort. The study population comprised 207 survivors who developed breast cancer and 2774 who had not developed any subsequent neoplasm as of last follow-up. Genotyping and subsequent imputation yielded 16\xe2\x80\x89958\xe2\x80\x89466 high-quality variants for analysis. We tested associations in the overall population and in subgroups stratified by receipt of lower than 10 and 10 or higher gray breast radiation exposure. We report P values and pooled per-allele risk estimates from Cox proportional hazards regression models. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Among survivors who received 10 or higher gray breast radiation exposure, a locus on 1q41 was associated with subsequent breast cancer risk (rs4342822, nearest gene PROX1 , risk allele frequency in control subjects [RAF controls ] = 0.46, hazard ratio = 1.92, 95% confidence interval = 1.49 to 2.44, P = 7.09\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -9 ). Two rare variants also showed potentially promising associations (breast radiation \xe2\x89\xa510 gray: rs74949440, 11q23, TAGLN , RAF controls = 0.02, P = 5.84\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -8 ;<10 gray: rs17020562, 1q32.3, RPS6KC1 , RAF controls = 0.0005, P = 6.68\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -8 ). Associations were restricted to these dose subgroups, with consistent findings in the two survivor cohorts.Conclusions: Our study provides strong evidence that germline genetics outside high-risk syndromes could modify the effect of radiation exposure on breast cancer risk after childhood cancer. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Breast#Breast Neoplasms#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genome-Wide Association Study#Hodgkin Disease#Homeodomain Proteins#Humans#Infant#Leukemia#Microfilament Proteins#Middle Aged#Muscle Proteins#Neoplasms, Radiation-Induced#Neoplasms, Second Primary#Proportional Hazards Models#Radiotherapy Dosage#Retrospective Studies#Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases#Survivors#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Young Adult#raf Kinases'
b'Background: In October 2016, pembrolizumab became the new standard of care for firstline treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (mNSCLC) whose tumors express programmed death ligand 1 in at least 50% of cells. The US Food and Drug Administration-recommended dose is 200\xe2\x80\x89mg every three weeks. Multiple studies have demonstrated equivalent efficacy with weight-based doses between 2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg and 10\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg. The objective of this study was to compare the economic impact of using personalized dosing (2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg) vs fixed dosing (200\xe2\x80\x89mg) in the firstline setting of mNSCLC.Methods: We performed a budget impact analysis from the US societal perspective to compare fixed dosing with personalized dosing. We calculated the target population and weight of patients who would be treated with pembrolizumab annually in the firstline setting. Using survival curves from the KEYNOTE 024 trial with Weibull extrapolation, we estimated the mean number of cycles that patients would receive. Using the Medicare average sales price, we calculated the difference in cost between personalized and fixed dosing.Results: Our base case model demonstrates that the total annual cost of pembrolizumab with fixed dosing is US $3\xe2\x80\x89440\xe2\x80\x89127\xe2\x80\x89429, and with personalized dosing it is US $2\xe2\x80\x89614\xe2\x80\x89496\xe2\x80\x89846. The use of personalized dosing would lead to a 24.0% annual savings of US $825\xe2\x80\x89630\xe2\x80\x89583 in the United States.Conclusions: Personalized dosing of pembrolizumab may have the potential to save approximately $0.825 billion annually in the United States, likely without impacting outcomes. This option should be considered for the firstline management of PD-L1-positive advanced lung cancer. labels: #Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Antineoplastic Agents#B7-H1 Antigen#Body Weight#Budgets#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Costs#Drug Dosage Calculations#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Monte Carlo Method#Precision Medicine#United States'
b'Background: Plasticity of the ERBB receptor network has been suggested to cause acquired resistance to anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) therapies. Thus, we studied whether a novel approach using an ERBB1-3-neutralizing antibody mixture can block these compensatory mechanisms of resistance.Methods: HER2+ cell lines and xenografts (n \xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x896 mice per group) were treated with the ERBB1-3 antibody mixture Pan-HER, trastuzumab/lapatinib (TL), trastuzumab/pertuzumab (TP), or T-DM1. Downregulation of ERBB receptors was assessed by immunoblot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Paired pre- and post-T-DM1 tumor biopsies from patients (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8911) with HER2-amplified breast cancer were evaluated for HER2 and P-HER3 expression by immunohistochemistry and/or fluorescence in situ hybridization. ERBB ligands were measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Drug-resistant cells were generated by chronic treatment with T-DM1. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Treatment with Pan-HER inhibited growth and promoted degradation of ERBB1-3 receptors in a panel of HER2+ breast cancer cells. Compared with TL, TP, and T-DM1, Pan-HER induced a similar antitumor effect against established BT474 and HCC1954 tumors, but was superior to TL against MDA-361 xenografts (TL mean = 2026\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89924\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , vs Pan-HER mean = 565\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89499\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , P = .04). Pan-HER-treated BT474 xenografts did not recur after treatment discontinuation, whereas tumors treated with TL, TP, and T-DM1 did. Post-TP and post-T-DM1 recurrent tumors expressed higher levels of neuregulin-1 (NRG1), HER3 and P-HER3 (all P<.05). Higher levels of P-HER3 protein and NRG1 mRNA were also observed in HER2+ breast cancers progressing after T-DM1 and trastuzumab (NRG1 transcript fold change \xc2\xb1 SD; pretreatment = 2, SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.9, vs post-treatment = 11.4, SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8910.3, P = .04). The HER3-neutralizing antibody LJM716 resensitized the drug-resistant cells to T-DM1, suggesting a causal association between the NRG1-HER3 axis and drug resistance. Finally, Pan-HER treatment inhibited growth of HR6 trastuzumab- and T-DM1-resistant xenografts.Conclusions: These data suggest that upregulation of a NRG1-HER3 axis can mediate escape from anti-HER2 therapies. Further, multitargeted antibody mixtures, such as Pan-HER, can simultaneously remove and/or block targeted ERBB receptor and ligands, thus representing an effective approach against drug-sensitive and -resistant HER2+ cancers. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Line, Tumor#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Humans#Ligands#Maytansine#Mice#Mice, Nude#Quinazolines#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptor, ErbB-2#Receptor, ErbB-3#Trastuzumab#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Conventional cancer clinical trials can be slow and costly, often produce results with limited external validity, and are difficult for patients to participate in. Recent technological advances and a dynamic policy landscape in the United States have created a fertile ground for the use of real-world data (RWD) to improve current methods of clinical evidence generation. Sources of RWD include electronic health records, insurance claims, patient registries, and digital health solutions outside of conventional clinical trials. A definition focused on the original intent of data collected at the point of care can distinguish RWD from conventional clinical trial data. When the intent of data collection at the point of care is research, RWD can be generated using experimental designs similar to those employed in conventional clinical trials, but with several advantages that include gains in efficient execution of studies with an appropriate balance between internal and external validity. RWD can support active pharmacovigilance, insights into the natural history of disease, and the development of external control arms. Prospective collection of RWD can enable evidence generation based on pragmatic clinical trials (PCTs) that support randomized study designs and expand clinical research to the point of care. PCTs may help address the growing demands for access to experimental therapies while increasing patient participation in cancer clinical trials. Conducting valid real-world studies requires data quality assurance through auditable data abstraction methods and new incentives to drive electronic capture of clinically relevant data at the point of care. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Clinical Trials as Topic#Data Collection#Electronic Health Records#Evidence-Based Medicine#Humans#Insurance Claim Review#Medical Oncology#Observational Studies as Topic#Patient Selection#Point-of-Care Systems#Pragmatic Clinical Trials as Topic#Registries#Reproducibility of Results#United States'
b'Background: Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common solid tumor found in children, and deletions within the 11q region are observed in 11% to 48% of these tumors. Notably, such tumors are associated with poor prognosis; however, little is known regarding the molecular targets located in 11q.Methods: Genomic alterations of ATM , DNA damage response (DDR)-associated genes located in 11q ( MRE11A, H2AFX , and CHEK1 ), and BRCA1, BARD1, CHEK2, MDM2 , and TP53 were investigated in 45 NB-derived cell lines and 237 fresh tumor samples. PARP (poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase) inhibitor sensitivity of NB was investigated in in vitro and invivo xenograft models. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Among 237 fresh tumor samples, ATM, MRE11A, H2AFX , and/or CHEK1 loss or imbalance in 11q was detected in 20.7% of NBs, 89.8% of which were stage III or IV. An additional 7.2% contained ATM rare single nucleotide variants (SNVs). Rare SNVs in DDR-associated genes other than ATM were detected in 26.4% and were mutually exclusive. Overall, samples with SNVs and/or copy number alterations in these genes accounted for 48.4%. ATM-defective cells are known to exhibit dysfunctions in homologous recombination repair, suggesting a potential for synthetic lethality by PARP inhibition. Indeed, 83.3% NB-derived cell lines exhibited sensitivity to PARP inhibition. In addition, NB growth was markedly attenuated in the xenograft group receiving PARP inhibitors (sham-treated vs olaprib-treated group; mean [SD] tumor volume of sham-treated vs olaprib-treated groups\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x897377 [1451]m 3 vs 298 [312] m 3 , P = .001, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894).Conclusions: Genomic alterations of DDR-associated genes including ATM, which regulates homologous recombination repair, were observed in almost half of NBs, suggesting that synthetic lethality could be induced by treatment with a PARP inhibitor. Indeed, DDR-defective NB cell lines were sensitive to PARP inhibitors. Thus, PARP inhibitors represent candidate NB therapeutics. labels: #Animals#Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Checkpoint Kinase 1#Checkpoint Kinase 2#Child#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#DNA Damage#DNA Repair#DNA-Binding Proteins#Gene Deletion#Heterografts#Histones#Humans#MRE11 Homologue Protein#Mice#Neuroblastoma#Phthalazines#Piperazines#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'Non-visual opsins were discovered in the early 1990s. These genes play roles in circadian rhythm in mammals, seasonal reproduction in birds, light avoidance in amphibian larvae, and neural development in fish. However, the interpretation of such studies and the success of future work are compromised by the fact that non-visual opsin repertoires have not been properly characterized in any of these lineages. Here, we show that non-visual opsins from tetrapods and ray-finned fish are distributed among 18 monophyletic subfamilies. An amphibian sequence occurs in every subfamily, whereas mammalian orthologs occur in only seven. Species in the major ray-finned fish lineages, Holostei, Osteoglossomorpha, Otomorpha, Protacanthopterygii, and Neoteleostei, have large numbers of non-visual opsins (22-32 genes) as a result of gene duplication events including, but not limited to, the teleost genome duplication (TGD). In contrast to visual opsins, where lineage-specific duplication is common, the ray-finned fish non-visual opsin repertoire appears to have stabilized shortly after the TGD event and consequently even distantly related species have repertoires of similar size and composition. Most non-visual opsins have been named without the benefit of a phylogenetic perspective and, accordingly, major revisions are proposed. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Fishes#Gene Expression Regulation#Opsins'
b"Description: In April 2017, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) approved a joint clinical practice guideline for the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus.Methods: The VA/DoD Evidence-Based Practice Work Group convened a joint VA/DoD guideline development effort that included a multidisciplinary panel of practicing clinician stakeholders and conformed to the Institute of Medicine's tenets for trustworthy clinical practice guidelines. The guideline panel developed key questions in collaboration with the ECRI Institute, which systematically searched and evaluated the literature through June 2016, developed an algorithm, and rated recommendations by using the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system.Recommendations: This synopsis summarizes key features of the guideline in 7 areas: patient-centered care and shared decision making, glycemic biomarkers, hemoglobin A1c target ranges, individualized treatment plans, outpatient pharmacologic treatment, glucose targets for critically ill patients, and treatment of hospitalized patients. labels: #Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Clinical Decision-Making#Decision Making#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Angiopathies#Fructosamine#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Life Expectancy#Patient Preference#Patient-Centered Care"
b"Objective:To analyze the clinical characteristics and perinatal outcomes of listeriosis during pregnancy.Methods:From July 2010 to April 2017, 70 131 women delivered in West China Second University Hospital. Nineteen cases were confirmed as listeriosis. The clinical symptoms, laboratory results, pathogens, placenta pathology and perinatal outcomes were analyzed retrospectively.Results:The median age of the 19 cases was 29.7 (19.0-42.0) years old. The median time before diagnosis was 4.8(0.5-19.0) days. The main clinical symptoms at first visits were high fever (17/19), increased white blood cells (18/19), abdominal pain (12/19). Listeria was found in samples of mother's blood (11/19), vaginal secretions (15/19), placenta (1/19), neonatal blood (4/19), neonatal phlegm (5/19) and neonatal ear secretions (1/19), respectively. Inflammation of placenta was identified in all 19 cases. Among the 19 cases, 1 was grade \xe2\x85\xa0 chorioamnionitis, 4 was grade \xe2\x85\xa1, 5 was grade \xe2\x85\xa2 and 9 was grade \xe2\x85\xa5. Only 4 newborn survived after therapy, and others suffered perinatal death, including 8 cases of intrauterine death, 3 cases of miscarriage and 6 cases of treatment failure.Conclusions:Listeriosis has characteristics of acute onset, quick development and high morbidity during pregnancy. The empiric use of antibiotics might not cover listeria. The understanding of listeriosis should be improved. labels: #Abortion, Spontaneous#Adult#Anti-Bacterial Agents#China#Chorioamnionitis#Female#Fetal Death#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Listeria monocytogenes#Listeriosis#Parturition#Placenta#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Pregnancy Outcome#Retrospective Studies"
b'Objectives:To analyze 3 cases of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome diagnosed prenatally, and to demonstrate clinical phenotype of the syndrome in prenatal setting.Methods:From January 2013 to July 2017, 1 370 women received invasive prenatal diagnosis and chromosome microarray analysis (CMA) in Peking Union Medical College Hospital. Among them, 3 fetuses were diagnosed as 17q12 microdeletion syndrome. All 3 cases were low-risk pregnancies. Abnormal structures in fetal kidney were found in all 3 cases, including 1 case of multiple renal cysts, 2 cases of bilateral hyperechogenic kidneys. These women accepted invasive prenatal diagnosis followed by karyotyping, parental fluorescence in situ hybridization or CMA validation.Results:The second and third trimester ultrasound showed that all 3 fetuses had bilateral renal structural abnormalities, including hyperechogenic kidney, multiple cysts and renal pelvis dilatation. The karyotyping of the 3 fetuses were normal. CMA examination showed that each case had 1.4-1.6 Mb deletion in 17q12 region. Two cases were de novo deletion and 1 case was inherited from the mother who had mild symptoms. The 3 women decided to terminate pregnancies after genetic counseling.Conclusion:17q12 microdeletion syndrome is a recurrent chromosome microdeletion syndrome, and the unique phenotype in prenatal setting is the abnormal structure of bilateral kidneys. A few cases of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome even inherited normally phenotypical parents, and prenatal genetic counseling of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome is relatively difficult. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Chromosome Deletion#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 17#Female#Fetal Diseases#Humans#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Intellectual Disability#Karyotyping#Kidney#Microarray Analysis#Phenotype#Pregnancy#Prenatal Diagnosis#Ultrasonography, Prenatal'
b"Objective:To investigate the safety and efficacy of hysterosopic management of type \xe2\x85\xa1 cesarean scar pregnancy (CSP) and the value of prophylactic uterine artery embolization (UAE).Methods:Totally 104 patients with type \xe2\x85\xa1 CSP treated with hysteroscopic surgery at the Women's Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, during Jan. 2009 to Jun. 2016 were analyzed retrospectively, 67 patients combined with UAE (UAE group) and 37 patients without combined with UAE (non-UAE group). Laparoscopy or sonography guidance was conducted simultaneously. The following clinical parameters were compared, including: primary cure rate, uterine packing rate, uterine perforation rate, hemoglobin level change, the time for the mass absorption and the return of \xce\xb2-hCG to normal, complications, hospital days and hospital stay cost.Results:Median gestational age, size of mass, thickness of the anterior myometrium and \xce\xb2-hCG level in UAE group versus non-UAE group were 47 versus 47 days, 30 versus 30 mm,2 versus 2 mm, 36 524 versus 32 226 U/L (allP>0.05). Out of 104, 100 patients were managed successfully with hysteroscopic surgery, and 4 patients transformed to laparoscopic or laparotomy surgery. Hysteroscopic surgery was effective in 63 out of 67 patients (94%) in UAE group and 34 out of 37 patients (92%) in non-UAE group (P>0.05). There was no significant differences regarding uterine perforation rate, uterine packing rate, hemoglobin change and recovery time between UAE group and non-UAE group (allP>0.05). The median hospital day was 7 days in UAE group versus 5 days in non-UAE group (P<0.01). The median hospital stay cost was 13 654 yuan in UAE group versus 9 108 yuan in non-UAE group (P<0.01). Serious complication occurred in 4 patients (6%, 4/67) in UAE group and 2 patients (5%, 2/67) in non-UAE group (P=0.906).Conclusions:Hysteroscopic surgery is effective and safe for patients with type \xe2\x85\xa1 CSP in the first trimester with size \xe2\x89\xa430 mm in diameter and gestation age<7 weeks. The value of prophylactic UAE is uncertain. labels: #Adult#Cesarean Section#Chorionic Gonadotropin, beta Subunit, Human#Cicatrix#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Humans#Hysteroscopy#Laparoscopy#Laparotomy#Length of Stay#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Trimester, First#Pregnancy, Ectopic#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography#Uterine Artery Embolization#Uterus#Young Adult"
b"Objective:To investigate clinical outcomes of laparoendoscopic single-site ovarian cystectomy compared with traditional multi-port laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy.Methods:Data of 81 patients with ovarian cystectomy from January 2016 to May 2017, the single-site group (n=40) and the multi-port group (n=41) in Peking Union Medical College Hospital were retrospectively collected. The outcomes of single-site and multi-port groups were analyzed and compared, including: postoperative fever, operation time, blood loss, hemoglobin change, surgical complications, postoperative pain score, postoperative analgesic requirements, body image scale and cosmetic score, length of hospital stay, postoperative total cost.Results:No complication was found in two groups. No difference was found in postoperative fever, blood loss, hemoglobin change, postoperative pain score, length of hospital stay, and total cost between the two groups (allP>0.05). Operation time was (50\xc2\xb120) minutes in single-site group, and (40\xc2\xb115) minutes in multi-port group; postoperative analgesic requirements was 28%(11/40) in single-site group, and 7%(4/41) in multi-port group; cosmetic score was 22.6\xc2\xb12.6 in single-site group, and 17.3\xc2\xb12.6 in multi-port group; body image scale was 5.7\xc2\xb11.2 in single-site group, and 6.2\xc2\xb11.2 in multi-port group; these four clinical parameters were statistical differences (allP<0.05).Conculsion:Laparoendoscopic single-site ovarian cystectomy is feasible and safe, although it could't relieve the postoperative pian, it do offer a higher cosmetic satisfaction. labels: #Adult#Endoscopy#Female#Gynecologic Surgical Procedures#Humans#Laparoscopy#Length of Stay#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Ovarian Cysts#Ovary#Pain, Postoperative#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'Objective:To compare the dose, clinical efficacy and acute adverse reactions of intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) and three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) combined with three-dimensional brachytherapy (3D-BT) in the treatment of concurrent radiotherapy and chemotherapy for advanced stage cervical cancer patients.Methods:Data collection was performed from January 2011 to November 2015 in Chinese PLA General Hospital and Inner Mongolia Cancer Hospital. All 89 patients with advanced stage (\xe2\x85\xa1 b-\xe2\x85\xa2 b) cervical cancer were treated by pelvic radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy, 46 cases of them received IMRT and 3D-BT (IMRT group) , 43 cases received 3D-CRT and 3D-BT (3D-CRT group) , along with cisplatin chemotherapy. The dose accumulation of external beam radiotherapy and 3D-BT was calculated by deformable image registration to analyze clinical efficacy, acute adverse reactions and prognosis of the two groups.Results:(1) Dose of radiotherapy: planning target volume (PTV) coverage of IMRT group and 3D-CRT group were respectively (95.4\xc2\xb14.7)% and (95.1\xc2\xb15.1)%, without significant differences (t=0.289,P=0.773). Compared with the patients treated with 3D-CRT, the volumn receiving at least 30 Gy (V(30)),V(50) of rectum, colon, bladder and small intestine andV(20) of bone marrow in the IMRT group were significantly decreased (P<0.05). Regarding the combined dose, the maximum dose (D(max)) and the minimum dose received by the most exposed 2 cm(3) volume of the analyzed organ (D(2CC)) of rectum, colon, bladder and small intestine of IMRT group were significantly lower than those of 3D-CRT group (P<0.05). (2) Short-term efficacy: the effective rate of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were respectively 93% (43/46) and 91% (39/43), with no significant differences (\xcf\x87(2)=0.237,P=0.626). (3) Acute adverse reactions: compared with 3D-CRT, IMRT could significantly reduce grade 1-2 acute toxicity in gastrointestinal [63%(29/46) vs 84%(36/43)], genitourinary [17%(8/46) vs 37%(16/43)]and hematologic [57%(26/46) vs 79%(34/43)] system (allP<0.05). There were no significant differences of grade 3 acute adverse reactions of gastrointestinal, genitourinary and hematologic system between two groups (allP>0.05). No grade 4 acute adverse reactions were observed. (4) Prognosis: the overall survival rate at 1, 2-year of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were respectively 95.6%, 89.1% and 93.1%, 86.1%. The progression-free survival rateat 1, 2-year of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were 91.1%, 89.1% and 88.4%, 86.1%, respectively. There were no significant differences in overall survival rate and progression-free survival rate between two groups (P>0.05).Conclusions:Compared with 3D-CRT, IMRT combined with 3D-BT has dosimetry advantages based on dose accumulation algorithms by deformable image registration. IMRT could ensure clinical efficacy and significantly reduce the incidence rate of acute toxicities. labels: #Brachytherapy#China#Cisplatin#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Pelvis#Prognosis#Radiotherapy Dosage#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Radiotherapy, Conformal#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Rectum#Severity of Illness Index#Survival Rate#Urinary Bladder#Urogenital System#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms'
b'Objective:To explore the origin of ovarian high grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) through analysing the expression and significance of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in the ovary and fallopian tube of different types and grades of serous carcinoma.Methods:A total of 44 cases tissue samples of ovarian tumor including 34 malignant ovarian tumor and 10 normal normal tissue (as control group) were collected from the admitted patients in Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi Medical University from January 2015 to January 2016. Fallopian tube tissues were segmented in accordance with the fimbria, ampulla, isthmus and the corresponding ovarian tissues were by the side. There were 34 cases of patients with ovarian cancer including 29 cases of epithelial ovarian cancer (27 serous carcinoma, 1 mucinous carcinoma,1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma) and 5 non-epithelial ovarian cancer (sex cord-interstitial tumor). Among 27 cases of patients with ovarian serous cancer, there were 23 HGSC and 4 low-grade ovarian serous cancer (LGSC). One hundred fifty-three cases of samples were diagnosed as ovarian serous cancer by Shandong University Affiliated Qilu Hospital from 2005 to 2013 and these samples were made tissue microarray. (1) To analyze the expression and differences of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in the above tissues and tissue microarray from ovarian and tubal of HGSC and control women by immunohistochemistry methods. (2) To compare the expression levels of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in ovarian and fallopian tubes of ovarian cancer patients with different pathological types. (3) To analyze the correlations of tubal and ovarian tissue in PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS expression of HGSC. (4) To analyze the factors of the prognosis of ovarian serous cancer in tissue microarray by single factor analysis method.Results:(1) PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS expression was negative in normal ovarian epithelium of control group, but the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS were strongly positive brown in secrete cells of normal fallopian tube epithelium. (2) p53 and RAS expression of fallopian tube epithelium in the epithelial ovarian cancer group were significantly higher than those in the non-epithelial ovarian cancer groups (P<0.05), but the expression of PAX8 and PAX2 in fallopian tube and the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in ovarian tissue was not statistically significant in the groups (P>0.05). PAX8, PAX2 and p53 expression of the ovarian in HGSC group were significantly higher than those in LGSC group (P<0.05), while the expression of RAS was lower in the ovarian of the high-grade group (P<0.05), while the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in fallopian tube was not statistically significant in the groups (P>0.05). (3) There was a significantly positive correlation between fallopian tube and the corresponding ovary of HGSC in PAX8 and PAX2 expression (r=0.422,P=0.045;r=0.693,P=0.000), but not correlation in p53 and RAS expression (r=0.058,P=0.793;r= -0.190,P=0.384). (4) Univariate survival analysis showed that the progression free survival time in patients with ovarian serous cancer group was significantly correlated with the protein expression of PAX8, PAX2 and RAS (P<0.05), but there were not correlated with age, surgical staging, cell differentiation, lymph node metastasis and preoperative chemotherapy and p53 protein expression (P>0.05). The total survival time in patients with ovarian serous cancer group was significantly correlated with the protein expression of PAX8 (P<0.05), but there were not correlated with age,surgical staging, cell differentiation, lymph node metastasis and preoperative chemotherapy and the protein expression of PAX2, RAS and p53 (P>0.05).Conclusions:PAX8, PAX2, p53, RAS are of great significance for the study of origin of HGSC. HGSC may be derived from fallopian tube, but further investigation would be necessary to confirm this. PAX8, PAX2, p53, RAS could be expected to be used as predictors of survival prognosis in patients with ovarian serous cancer. labels: #Carcinoma, Endometrioid#China#Cystadenocarcinoma, Serous#Epithelium#Fallopian Tube Neoplasms#Fallopian Tubes#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Monomeric GTP-Binding Proteins#Neoplasm Proteins#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#PAX2 Transcription Factor#PAX8 Transcription Factor#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'California\xe2\x80\x99s female dentists have experienced many professional\nand societal challenges. Their earliest achievements and successes are examined,including their history in the early California schools of dentistry and dental\nsocieties, their service and professional practice. A diverse selection of femaledentists from California with different professional career paths is profiled. labels: #California#Dentists, Women#Female#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#History, 21st Century#Humans#Schools, Dental'
b'More than 150 years ago, Lucy Hobbs became the first woman in the\ncountry to enter dental school. Today, women represent nearly half of the nation\xe2\x80\x99sentering class, more than a third of the faculty and a growing number of administrative\nleaders, including deans. Evidence illustrates a developing pipeline toward greaternumbers and strength of women in dental education, creating a far-reaching impact on\nteaching, learning and patient care in academia, practice and the profession. labels: #Administrative Personnel#Career Choice#Career Mobility#Dentists, Women#Education, Dental#Faculty, Dental#Female#Humans#Leadership#Professional Role#United States'
b'If trends continue, the majority of U.S. dental students will soon be\nwomen. However, there is little empirical analysis examining gender differences inthe labor supply of dentists and the potential effects on the dental care sector. We\nhelp fill this data void by examining differences in dentists\xe2\x80\x99 hours worked by gender,how this has changed over time and the potential implications for the current and\nfuture aggregate labor supply of dentists in California. labels: #Adult#California#Career Choice#Dentistry#Dentists, Women#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Middle Aged#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Workload'
b'Even though there are more women in the workplace today than\never before and more women than men are now graduating from college, there arerelatively few women who hold leadership positions, be it in government, academics\nor on corporate boards. labels: #Career Choice#Career Mobility#Demography#Dentists, Women#Female#Humans#Leadership#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Conventional drugs used to treat diabetes are too expensive, toxic and rarely available to rural communities. This study was aimed at investigating the phytochemical differences and hypoglycaemic effects (\xce\xb1-amylase enzyme inhibition, glucose uptake, GLUT4 translocation and phosphorylation of MAPKs) of non-defatted and defatted acetone leaf extract of Acacia karroo.METHODS: Qualitative phytochemical analyses of extracts were determined using standard chemical tests and total phenolic contents using the Folin-Ciocalteu reagent method. Presence of antioxidant constituents was determined using DPPH scavenging and ferric reducing power assays. Alpha amylase enzyme inhibitory potential was determined chromogenically and cytotoxicity of the extracts on C2C12 muscle and 3T3-L1 cells using the MTT assay. Glucose uptake by the cells was determined colorimetrically and the most active extract was evaluated for its ability to translocate GLUT4 and MAPKs phosphorylation potential using immunofluorescence microscopy and dot blot analysis, respectively.RESULTS: Phenols, flavonoids, tannins, saponins and cardiac glycosides were detected in both extracts. Defatting of the plant material resulted in low amounts of phenols (0.432\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.014 TAE/mg), DPPH scavenging activity (EC500.40\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.012\xc2\xa0mg/ml), low toxicity and high ferric reducing power (EC501.13\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.017\xc2\xa0mg/ml), \xce\xb1-amylase enzyme inhibition (IC5030.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa03.037\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml) and glucose uptake by both cells. The defatted extract showed an increase in GLUT4 translocation (at 25\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml) with decrease in Akt expression while in combination with insulin showed a decrease in GLUT4 translocation. A finding, that is implicative that the effect of the extract on GLUT4 translocation in C2C12 cells was not Akt dependent. The defatted extract in the absence and presence of insulin show varying phosphorylation levels of CREB, p38, GSK-3 and ERK2 which are important in cell survival and metabolism.CONCLUSION: This study represents the first report on the hypoglycemic potential of A. karroo and presence of compounds that can be exploited in the search for therapeutics with antidiabetic effect. labels: #Acacia#Animals#Antioxidants#Cell Line#Cell Survival#Glucose#Glucose Transporter Type 4#Hypoglycemic Agents#Mice#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Phenols#Phosphorylation#Plant Extracts#Plant Leaves#alpha-Amylases'
b"Swine are a key reservoir host for influenza A viruses (IAVs), with the potential to cause global pandemics in humans. Gaps in surveillance in many of the world's largest swine populations impede our understanding of how novel viruses emerge and expand their spatial range in pigs. Although US swine are intensively sampled, little is known about IAV diversity in Canada's population of ~12\xe2\x80\x89million pigs. By sequencing 168 viruses from multiple regions of Canada, our study reveals that IAV diversity has been underestimated in Canadian pigs for many years. Critically, a new H1 clade has emerged in Canada (H1\xce\xb1-3), with a two-amino acid deletion at H1 positions 146-147, that experienced rapid growth in Manitoba's swine herds during 2014-2015. H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses also exhibit a higher capacity to invade US swine herds, resulting in multiple recent introductions of the virus into the US Heartland following large-scale movements of pigs in this direction. From the Heartland, H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses have disseminated onward to both the east and west coasts of the United States, and may become established in Appalachia. These findings demonstrate how long-distance trading of live pigs facilitates the spread of IAVs, increasing viral genetic diversity and complicating pathogen control. The proliferation of novel H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses also highlights the need for expanded surveillance in a Canadian swine population that has long been overlooked, and may have implications for vaccine design. labels: #Animals#Canada#Evolution, Molecular#Influenza A virus#Molecular Epidemiology#Orthomyxoviridae Infections#Swine#Swine Diseases#United States"
b"In mammals, susceptibility to prion infection is primarily modulated by the host's cellular prion protein (PrPC) sequence. In the sheep scrapie model, a graded scale of susceptibility has been established both in vivo and in vitro based on PrPCamino acids 136, 154 and 171, leading to global breeding programmes to reduce the prevalence of scrapie in sheep. Chronic wasting disease (CWD) resistance in cervids is often characterized as decreased prevalence and/or protracted disease progression in individuals with specific alleles; at present, no PrPCallele conferring absolute resistance in cervids has been identified. To model the susceptibility of various naturally occurring and hypothetical cervid PrPCalleles in vitro, we compared the amplification rates and amyloid extension efficiencies of eight distinct CWD isolates in recombinant cervid PrPCsubstrates using real-time quaking-induced conversion. We hypothesized that the in vitro conversion characteristics of these isolates in cervid substrates would correlate to in vivo susceptibility - permitting susceptibility prediction for the rare alleles found in nature. We also predicted that hypothetical alleles with multiple resistance-associated codons would be more resistant to in vitro conversion than natural alleles with a single resistant codon. Our studies demonstrate that in vitro conversion metrics align with in vivo susceptibility, and that alleles with multiple amino acid substitutions, each influencing resistance independently, do not necessarily contribute additively to conversion resistance. Importantly, we found that the naturally occurring whitetail deer QGAK substrate exhibited the slowest amplification rate among those evaluated, suggesting that further investigation of this allele and its resistance in vivo is warranted. labels: #Alleles#Amyloid#Animals#Deer#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Prion Proteins#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#Wasting Disease, Chronic"
b'By providing pollination services, bees are among the most important insects, both in ecological and economical terms. Combined next-generation and classical sequencing approaches were applied to discover and study new insect viruses potentially harmful to bees. A bioinformatics virus discovery pipeline was used on individual Illumina transcriptomes of 13 wild bees from three species from the genus Halictus and 30 ants from six species of the genera Messor and Aphaenogaster. This allowed the discovery and description of three sequences of a new virus termed Halictus scabiosae Adlikon virus (HsAV). Phylogenetic analyses of ORF1, RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase (RdRp) and capsid genes showed that HsAV is closely related to (+)ssRNA viruses of the unassigned Sinaivirus genus but distant enough to belong to a different new genus we called Halictivirus. In addition, our study of ant transcriptomes revealed the first four sinaivirus sequences from ants (Messor barbarus, M. capitatus and M. concolor). Maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses were performed on a 594 nt fragment of the ORF1/RdRp region from 84 sinaivirus sequences, including 31 new Lake Sinai viruses (LSVs) from honey bees collected in five countries across the globe and the four ant viral sequences. The phylogeny revealed four main clades potentially representing different viral species infecting honey bees. Moreover, the ant viruses belonged to the LSV4 clade, suggesting a possible cross-species transmission between bees and ants. Lastly, wide honey bee screening showed that all four LSV clades have worldwide distributions with no obvious geographical segregation. labels: #Animals#Ants#Bees#Genetic Variation#Insect Viruses#Phylogeny#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Viral Proteins'
b'Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer. Herein we discover that the key glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 isoform (PKM2), but not the related isoform PKM1, is methylated by co-activator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1). PKM2 methylation reversibly shifts the balance of metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to aerobic glycolysis in breast cancer cells. Oxidative phosphorylation depends on mitochondrial calcium concentration, which becomes critical for cancer cell survival when PKM2 methylation is blocked. By interacting with and suppressing the expression of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP3Rs), methylated PKM2 inhibits the influx of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum to mitochondria. Inhibiting PKM2 methylation with a competitive peptide delivered by nanoparticles perturbs the metabolic energy balance in cancer cells, leading to a decrease in cell proliferation, migration and metastasis. Collectively, the CARM1-PKM2 axis serves as a metabolic reprogramming mechanism in tumorigenesis, and inhibiting PKM2 methylation generates metabolic vulnerability to InsP3R-dependent mitochondrial functions. labels: #Animals#CARD Signaling Adaptor Proteins#Calcium#Carcinogenesis#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Endoplasmic Reticulum#Female#Glycolysis#Guanylate Cyclase#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inositol 1,4,5-Trisphosphate Receptors#MCF-7 Cells#Membrane Proteins#Methylation#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Mitochondria#Neoplasm Metastasis#Oxidative Phosphorylation#Thyroid Hormones'
b'In\xc2\xa0vitro differentiation of human intestinal organoids (HIOs) from pluripotent stem cells is an unparalleled system for creating complex, multicellular three-dimensional structures capable of giving rise to tissue analogous to native human tissue. Current methods for generating HIOs rely on growth in an undefined tumour-derived extracellular matrix (ECM), which severely limits the use of organoid technologies for regenerative and translational medicine. Here, we developed a fully defined, synthetic hydrogel based on a four-armed, maleimide-terminated poly(ethylene glycol) macromer that supports robust and highly reproducible in\xc2\xa0vitro growth and expansion of HIOs, such that three-dimensional structures are never embedded in tumour-derived ECM. We also demonstrate that the hydrogel serves as an injection vehicle that can be delivered into injured intestinal mucosa resulting in HIO engraftment and improved colonic wound repair. Together, these studies show proof-of-concept that HIOs may be used therapeutically to treat intestinal injury. labels: #Animals#Cell Differentiation#Cells, Cultured#Colon#Extracellular Matrix#Humans#Hydrogels#Intestinal Mucosa#Intestines#Mice#Organoids#Pluripotent Stem Cells#Regeneration#Wound Healing'
b'Apicobasal polarity is known to affect epithelial morphogenesis and cell differentiation, but it remains unknown how these processes are mechanistically orchestrated. We find that ligand-specific EGFR signalling via PI(3)K and Rac1 autonomously modulates apicobasal polarity to enforce the sequential control of morphogenesis and cell differentiation. Initially, EGF controls pancreatic tubulogenesis by negatively regulating apical polarity induction. Subsequently, betacellulin, working via inhibition of atypical protein kinase C (aPKC), causes apical domain constriction within neurogenin3+endocrine progenitors, which results in reduced Notch signalling, increased neurogenin3 expression, and \xce\xb2-cell differentiation. Notably, the ligand-specific EGFR output is not driven at the ligand level, but seems to have evolved in response to stage-specific epithelial influences. The EGFR-mediated control of \xce\xb2-cell differentiation via apical polarity is also conserved in human neurogenin3+cells. We provide insight into how ligand-specific EGFR signalling coordinates epithelial morphogenesis and cell differentiation via apical polarity dynamics. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Cell Differentiation#Cell Polarity#Epithelial Cells#Insulin-Secreting Cells#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Morphogenesis#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neuropeptides#Organogenesis#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Protein Kinase C#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction#rac1 GTP-Binding Protein'
b'In this retrospective study of 5,536 patients admitted over four years\nat a predoctoral dental clinic for comprehensive care, general dentists identifiedcrown lengthening needs in 584 patients and 760 teeth. Only 51 patients and\n68 teeth actually received crown lengthening procedures. For the other cases,patients discontinued treatment or chose extraction or restoration without crown\nlengthening procedures. Teeth that received crown lengthening procedures weremost likely restored and functioning for at least one year. labels: #Adult#Crown Lengthening#Dental Clinics#Education, Dental#Female#General Practice, Dental#Health Services Needs and Demand#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Therapeutics'
b"This cross-sectional study investigated California dentists\xe2\x80\x99 knowledge\nand opinion of the interface between oral and overall health. A questionnaire andcover letter explaining the purpose of the study were mailed to 1,100 randomly\nselected California licensed general dentists. The survey measured dentists\xe2\x80\x99knowledge and opinions of the interface between oral and overall health as well as\ntheir recommendations for strengthening this interface. Dentists believed that therewas minimal interface between oral and overall health care. labels: #California#Cross-Sectional Studies#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Health Status#Humans#Middle Aged#Oral Health#Practice Patterns, Dentists'#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b"Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) or sleeping sickness is a Neglected Tropical Disease. Long regarded as an invariably fatal disease, there is increasing evidence that infection by T. b. gambiense can result in a wide range of clinical outcomes, including latent infections, which are long lasting infections with no parasites detectable by microscopy. The determinants of this clinical diversity are not well understood but could be due in part to parasite or host genetic diversity in multiple genes, or their interactions. A candidate gene association study was conducted in C\xc3\xb4te d'Ivoire using a case-control design which included a total of 233 subjects (100 active HAT cases, 100 controls and 33 latent infections). All three possible pairwise comparisons between the three phenotypes were tested using 96 SNPs in16 candidate genes (IL1, IL4, IL4R, IL6, IL8, IL10, IL12, IL12R, TNFA, INFG, MIF, APOL1, HPR, CFH, HLA-A and HLA-G). Data from 77 SNPs passed quality control. There were suggestive associations at three loci in IL6 and TNFA in the comparison between active cases and controls, one SNP in each of APOL1, MIF and IL6 in the comparison between latent infections and active cases and seven SNP in IL4, HLA-G and TNFA between latent infections and controls. No associations remained significant after Bonferroni correction, but the Benjamini Hochberg false discovery rate test indicated that there were strong probabilities that at least some of the associations were genuine. The excess of associations with latent infections despite the small number of samples available suggests that these subjects form a distinct genetic cluster different from active HAT cases and controls, although no clustering by phenotype was observed by principle component analysis. This underlines the complexity of the interactions existing between host genetic polymorphisms and parasite diversity. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Apolipoprotein L1#Apolipoproteins#Case-Control Studies#Child#Cote d'Ivoire#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Interleukin-4#Interleukin-6#Intramolecular Oxidoreductases#Lipoproteins, HDL#Macrophage Migration-Inhibitory Factors#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Principal Component Analysis#Trypanosoma brucei gambiense#Trypanosomiasis, African#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Young Adult"
b'With increasing appreciation for the extent and importance of intratumor heterogeneity, much attention in cancer research has focused on profiling heterogeneity on a single patient level. Although true single-cell genomic technologies are rapidly improving, they remain too noisy and costly at present for population-level studies. Bulk sequencing remains the standard for population-scale tumor genomics, creating a need for computational tools to separate contributions of multiple tumor clones and assorted stromal and infiltrating cell populations to pooled genomic data. All such methods are limited to coarse approximations of only a few cell subpopulations, however. In prior work, we demonstrated the feasibility of improving cell type deconvolution by taking advantage of substructure in genomic mixtures via a strategy called simplicial complex unmixing. We improve on past work by introducing enhancements to automate learning of substructured genomic mixtures, with specific emphasis on genome-wide copy number variation (CNV) data, as well as the ability to process quantitative RNA expression data, and heterogeneous combinations of RNA and CNV data. We introduce methods for dimensionality estimation to better decompose mixture model substructure; fuzzy clustering to better identify substructure in sparse, noisy data; and automated model inference methods for other key model parameters. We further demonstrate their effectiveness in identifying mixture substructure in true breast cancer CNV data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Source code is available at https://github.com/tedroman/WSCUnmix. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Chromosome Mapping#Data Interpretation, Statistical#Female#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression Profiling#Genes, Neoplasm#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Reproducibility of Results#Sensitivity and Specificity#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b'OBJECTIVES: Physical exercise may affect levels of blood-based biomarkers. However, exercise status is seldom considered in the interpretation of laboratory results. This study reports the associations between habitual exercise participation and clinical laboratory test results.METHODS: The effects of days per week of aerobic and strength exercise participation on laboratory test results for 26 biomarkers in young adults aged 18 to 34 years (n = 80,111) were evaluated using percentile distribution analyses and multivariate regression.RESULTS: In both men and women, more days per week of either aerobic or strength exercise were significantly associated with lower levels of glucose, hemoglobin A1c, LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, estimated glomerular filtration rate, globulin, and C-reactive protein, and significantly higher levels of HDL cholesterol, creatinine, iron, and percent saturation (all p<.05). Type of exercise or gender influenced the observed relationships with exercise frequency for total cholesterol, aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase, uric acid, bilirubin, and iron binding capacity.CONCLUSIONS: Physical exercise shifted the distribution of results into the direction suggestive of better health. Reported relationships may help clinicians and patients to better understand and interpret laboratory results in athletic populations and possibly re-evaluate interpretation of reference intervals for physically active populations. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aerobiosis#Female#Humans#Male#Resistance Training#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Financing of malaria control for displaced populations is limited in scope and duration, making cost-effectiveness analyses relevant but difficult. This study analyses cost-effectiveness of adding prevention through targeted indoor residual spraying (IRS) to case management in Afghan refugee settlements in Pakistan during a prolonged malaria epidemic.METHODS/FINDINGS: An intervention study design was selected, taking a societal perspective. Provider and household costs of vector control and case management were collected from provider records and community survey. Health outcomes (e.g. cases and DALYs averted) were derived and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for cases prevented and DALYs averted calculated. Population, treatment cost, women's time, days of productivity lost, case fatality rate, cases prevented, and DALY assumptions were tested in sensitivity analysis. Malaria incidence peaked at 44/1,000 population in year 2, declining to 14/1,000 in year 5. In total, 370,000 malaria cases, 80% vivax, were diagnosed and treated and an estimated 67,988 vivax cases and 18,578 falciparum and mixed cases prevented. Mean annual programme cost per capita was US$0.56. The additional cost of including IRS over five years per case prevented was US$39; US$50 for vivax (US$43 in years 1-3, US$80 in years 4-5) and US$182 for falciparum (US$139 in years 1-3 and US$680 in years 4-5). Per DALY averted this was US$266 (US$220 in years 1-3 and US$486 in years 4-5) and thus 'highly cost-effective' or cost-effective using WHO and comparison thresholds.CONCLUSIONS: Adding IRS was cost-effective in this moderate endemicity, low mortality setting. It was more cost-effective when transmission was highest, becoming less so as transmission reduced. Because vivax was three times more common than falciparum and the case fatality rate was low, cost-effectiveness estimations for cases prevented appear reliable and more definitive for vivax malaria. labels: #Aerosols#Case Management#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Epidemics#Health Care Costs#Humans#Incidence#Insecticides#Malaria, Falciparum#Malaria, Vivax#Mosquito Control#Pakistan#Refugees"
b'Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) constitutes a global health burden. Efforts to uncover predisposing genetic variation have been considerable, yet detailed knowledge of the underlying pathogenesis remains poor. Here, we constructed a T2D phenotypic-linkage network (T2D-PLN), by integrating diverse gene functional information that highlight genes, which when disrupted in mice, elicit similar T2D-relevant phenotypes. Sensitising the network to T2D-relevant phenotypes enabled significant functional convergence to be detected between genes implicated in monogenic or syndromic diabetes and genes lying within genomic regions associated with T2D common risk. We extended these analyses to a recent multiethnic T2D case-control exome of 12,940 individuals that found no evidence of T2D risk association for rare frequency variants outside of previously known T2D risk loci. Examining associations involving protein-truncating variants (PTV), most at low population frequencies, the T2D-PLN was able to identify a convergent set of biological pathways that were perturbed within four of five independent T2D case/control ethnic sets of 2000 to 5000 exomes each. These same pathways were found to be over-represented among both known monogenic or syndromic diabetes genes and genes within T2D-associated common risk loci. Our study demonstrates convergent biology amongst variants representing different classes of T2D genetic risk. Although convergence was observed at the pathway level, few of the contributing genes were found in common between different cohorts or variant classes, most notably between the exome variant sets which suggests that future rare variant studies may be better focusing their power onto a single population of recent common ancestry. labels: #Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prevalence#Proteome#Reproducibility of Results#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Evolution has equipped life on our planet with an array of extraordinary senses, but perhaps the least understood is magnetoreception. Despite compelling behavioral evidence that this sense exists, the cells, molecules, and mechanisms that mediate sensory transduction remain unknown. So how could animals detect magnetic fields? We introduce and discuss 3 concepts that attempt to address this question: (1) a mechanically sensitive magnetite-based magnetoreceptor, (2) a light-sensitive chemical-based mechanism, and (3) electromagnetic induction within accessory structures. In discussing the merits and issues with each of these ideas, we draw on existing precepts in sensory biology. We argue that solving this scientific mystery will require the development of new genetic tools in magnetosensitive species, coupled with an interdisciplinary approach that bridges physics, behavior, anatomy, physiology, molecular biology, and genetics. labels: #Animals#Electromagnetic Fields#Light#Magnetic Fields#Receptors, Cell Surface'
b'Genome-wide association studies have identified hundreds of risk loci for autoimmune disease, yet only a minority (~25%) share genetic effects with changes to gene expression (eQTLs) in immune cells. RNA-Seq based quantification at whole-gene resolution, where abundance is estimated by culminating expression of all transcripts or exons of the same gene, is likely to account for this observed lack of colocalisation as subtle isoform switches and expression variation in independent exons can be concealed. We performed integrative cis-eQTL analysis using association statistics from twenty autoimmune diseases (560 independent loci) and RNA-Seq data from 373 individuals of the Geuvadis cohort profiled at gene-, isoform-, exon-, junction-, and intron-level resolution in lymphoblastoid cell lines. After stringently testing for a shared causal variant using both the Joint Likelihood Mapping and Regulatory Trait Concordance frameworks, we found that gene-level quantification significantly underestimated the number of causal cis-eQTLs. Only 5.0-5.3% of loci were found to share a causal cis-eQTL at gene-level compared to 12.9-18.4% at exon-level and 9.6-10.5% at junction-level. More than a fifth of autoimmune loci shared an underlying causal variant in a single cell type by combining all five quantification types; a marked increase over current estimates of steady-state causal cis-eQTLs. Causal cis-eQTLs detected at different quantification types localised to discrete epigenetic annotations. We applied a linear mixed-effects model to distinguish cis-eQTLs modulating all expression elements of a gene from those where the signal is only evident in a subset of elements. Exon-level analysis detected disease-associated cis-eQTLs that subtly altered transcription globally across the target gene. We dissected in detail the genetic associations of systemic lupus erythematosus and functionally annotated the candidate genes. Many of the known and novel genes were concealed at gene-level (e.g. IKZF2, TYK2, LYST). Our findings are provided as a web resource. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Cell Line#European Continental Ancestry Group#Gene Expression Profiling#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Linear Models#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Lymphoid Progenitor Cells#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'There is growing interest in studying and engineering integral membrane proteins (MPs) that play key roles in sensing and regulating cellular response to diverse external signals. A MP must be expressed, correctly inserted and folded in a lipid bilayer, and trafficked to the proper cellular location in order to function. The sequence and structural determinants of these processes are complex and highly constrained. Here we describe a predictive, machine-learning approach that captures this complexity to facilitate successful MP engineering and design. Machine learning on carefully-chosen training sequences made by structure-guided SCHEMA recombination has enabled us to accurately predict the rare sequences in a diverse library of channelrhodopsins (ChRs) that express and localize to the plasma membrane of mammalian cells. These light-gated channel proteins of microbial origin are of interest for neuroscience applications, where expression and localization to the plasma membrane is a prerequisite for function. We trained Gaussian process (GP) classification and regression models with expression and localization data from 218 ChR chimeras chosen from a 118,098-variant library designed by SCHEMA recombination of three parent ChRs. We use these GP models to identify ChRs that express and localize well and show that our models can elucidate sequence and structure elements important for these processes. We also used the predictive models to convert a naturally occurring ChR incapable of mammalian localization into one that localizes well. labels: #Cell Membrane#Drug Design#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Ion Channels#Lipid Bilayers#Machine Learning#Rhodopsin#Sequence Analysis, Protein#Structure-Activity Relationship#Subcellular Fractions'
b'BACKGROUND: Once interruption of transmission of lymphatic filariasis is achieved, morbidity prevention and management becomes more important. A study in Brugia malayi filariasis from India has shown sub-clinical lymphatic pathology with potential reversibility. We studied a Wuchereria bancrofti infected population, the major contributor to LF globally.METHODS: Children aged 5-18 years from Odisha, India were screened for W. bancrofti infection and disease. 102 infected children, 50 with filarial disease and 52 without symptoms were investigated by lymphoscintigraphy and then randomized to receive a supervised single oral dose of DEC and albendazole which was repeated either annually or semi-annually. The lymphatic pathology was evaluated six monthly for two years.FINDINGS: Baseline lymphoscintigraphy showed abnormality in lower limb lymphatics in 80% of symptomatic (40/50) and 63\xc2\xb75% (33/52) of asymptomatic children. Progressive improvement in baseline pathology was seen in 70\xc2\xb78, 87\xc2\xb73, 98\xc2\xb76, and 98\xc2\xb76% of cases at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months follow up, while in 4\xc2\xb72, 22\xc2\xb75, 47\xc2\xb79 and 64\xc2\xb78%, pathology reverted to normal. This was independent of age (p = 0\xc2\xb727), symptomatic status (p = 0\xc2\xb757) and semi-annual/bi-annual dosing (p = 0\xc2\xb746). Six of eleven cases showed clinical reduction in lymphedema of legs.INTERPRETATION: A significant proportion of a young W. bancrofti infected population exhibited lymphatic pathology which was reversible with annual dosage of DEC and albendazole. This provides evidence for morbidity prevention&treatment of early lymphedema. It can also be used as a tool to improve community compliance during mass drug administration.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov No CTRI/2013/10/004121. labels: #Administration, Oral#Adolescent#Albendazole#Animals#Asymptomatic Infections#Child#Child, Preschool#Diethylcarbamazine#Elephantiasis, Filarial#Female#Filaricides#Humans#India#Lymphatic System#Lymphedema#Lymphoscintigraphy#Male#Treatment Outcome#Wuchereria bancrofti'
b"The trophic behavior of marine predators varies according to the level of competition to which they are exposed. In general, populations that inhabit lower productivity systems face a strong intraspecific competition, which contributes to the development of different foraging strategies to maximize nutritional efficiency. Given the high trophic flexibility of Zalophus wollebaeki, this species is considered appropriate for the analysis of such behavior. Furthermore, this trophic flexibility has allowed them to persist in a seemingly marginal ecosystem. In this study, we used a comparative analysis of variables (diet and dive behavior) related to Z. wollebaeki trophic niche plasticity to better understand their foraging ecology, using techniques such scat analysis, satellite telemetry and complementarily an isotopic analysis. Scat analysis revealed intra-population variation in their diet, represented by prey from different environments (epipelagic and benthic). These results are supported by the animals' locations at sea and diving profiles. Global Positioning System (GPS) and time-depth recorder (TDR) records showed the existence of two groups, with differing feeding areas and diving behavior. Also the \xce\xb415N values showed differences in the trophic level at which the species fed. These results constitute a relevant finding in the evolutionary behavior of the species, showing that Z. wollebaeki has developed a high degree of foraging flexibility, thus increasing its survival rate in an ecosystem that is highly demanding in terms of resource availability. labels: #Animals#Ecuador#Feeding Behavior#Principal Component Analysis#Remote Sensing Technology#Sea Lions#Species Specificity"
b'BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are epigenetically involved in regulating gene expression. They may be of importance in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The aim of this study was to determine the role of miRNAs by their specific blocking in the CD4+CB45RBhi T-cell transfer model of chronic experimental colitis.METHODS: Colitis caused by transfer of WT CD4+CD45RBhi T cells in severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice shares many features with human IBD. Colonic miRNA expression levels were measured at three time points in colitic mice, where a time-dependent upregulation of multiple miRNAs was seen. To inhibit these miRNAs, specific locked-nucleic-acid-modified (LNA) oligonucleotides were administered in further experiments at the moment the mice demonstrated the first signs of colitis. As controls, PBS and a scrambled sequence of anti-miRNA were used. Genome-wide expression analyses were also performed in order to detect candidate target genes of miR-142-5p, of which inhibition resulted in most effective amelioration of colitis.RESULTS: Anti-miR-142-5p reduced colitis and related wasting disease when administered in the T-cell transfer model, reflected in reduced weight loss and a lower disease activity index (DAI). In further validation experiments we also observed a higher survival rate and less colonic histological inflammation in the antagomir-treated mice. Moreover, by genome-wide expression analyses, we found downstream activation of the anti-inflammatory IL10RA pathway, including three genes also found in the top-20 candidate target genes of miR-142-5p.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, CD4+CD45RBhi-transfer colitis induces miR-142-5p. Blocking miR-142-5p reduced colitis and prevented wasting disease, possibly by activation of the IL10RA pathway. labels: #Animals#Colitis#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#MicroRNAs#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: Mass drug administration (MDA) using praziquantel is the WHO-recommended approach for control of schistosomiasis. However, few studies have compared the impact of different schedules of MDA on the resultant infection levels. We wished to evaluate whether annual MDA was more effective than less frequent treatments for reducing community-level prevalence and intensity of Schistosoma mansoni infections.METHODS: We performed a cluster randomized trial (ISRCTN 14849830) of 3 different MDA frequencies over a 5 year period in 75 villages with moderate (10%-24%) initial prevalence of S. mansoni in school children in western Kenya. Praziquantel was distributed by school teachers to students either annually, the first 2 years, or every other year over a 4 year period. Prevalence and intensity of infection were measured by stool examination in 9-12 year old students using the Kato-Katz method at baseline, each treatment year, and for the final evaluation at year 5. S. mansoni prevalence and intensity were also measured in first year students at baseline and year 5.RESULTS: Twenty-five schools were randomly assigned to each arm. S. mansoni prevalence and infection intensity in 9-12 year old students significantly decreased within each arm from baseline to year 5 but there were no differences between arms. There were no differences in infection levels in first year students either within or between arms.CONCLUSIONS: Strategies employing 2 or 4 rounds of MDA had a similar impact in schools with moderate initial prevalence, suggesting that schistosomiasis control can be sustained by school-based MDA, even if provided only every other year. labels: #Animals#Child#Drug Administration Schedule#Feces#Female#Humans#Kenya#Male#Praziquantel#Prevalence#Schistosoma mansoni#Schistosomiasis mansoni#Schistosomicides#Schools#Students#Time Factors#World Health Organization'
b"BACKGROUND: The prevalence of unplanned pregnancy in Saudi Arabia has not been thoroughly investigated.OBJECTIVE: To conduct a psychometric evaluation study of the Arabic version of the London Measure of Unplanned Pregnancy (LMUP).METHODS: To evaluate the psychometric properties of the LMUP, we conducted a self-administered online survey among 796 ever-married Saudi women aged 20-49 years, and a re-test survey among 24 women. The psychometric properties evaluated included content validity measured by content validity index (CVI), structural validity assessed by exploratory factor analysis (EFA), substantive validity assessed by hypothesis testing, contextual stability for the test-retest assessed by weighted Kappa, and internal consistency assessed by Cronbach's alpha.RESULTS: The psychometric analysis of the Arabic version of LMUP exhibited valid and reliable properties. The CVIs for individual items and at the scale level were>0.7. EFA confirmed a unidimensional extraction of the scale item. Hypothesis testing confirmed expected associations. The tool was stable with weighted kappa = 0.78 and Cronbach's alpha = 0.88.CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS: In this study, the validity and reliability of the Arabic version of the LMUP were confirmed according to well-known psychometric criteria. This LMUP version can be used in research studies among Arabic-speaking women to measure unplanned pregnancy and investigate correlates and outcomes related to unplanned pregnancy. labels: #Adult#Family Planning Services#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Pregnancy#Psychometrics#Saudi Arabia#Young Adult"
b'The pig spine is widely used as a large animal model for preclinical research in human medicine to test new spinal implants and surgical procedures. Among them, pedicle screw is one of the most common method of fixation of those implants. However, the pedicle of the porcine vertebra is not as well defined and not as large as the pedicle of the human vertebra. Therefore, the position of the screw should be adapted to the pig and not merely transposed based on the literature on humans. The purpose of this study is to determine the characteristics of the optimum implantation corridors for pedicle screws in the thoracolumbar spine of piglets of different ages using computed tomography (CT) and to determine the size and length of these corridors in pigs of different ages. CT scans from five groups of age: 6, 10, 14, 18, and 26 weeks were reviewed. For each thoracolumbar vertebrae, the pedicle width, pedicle axis length, and the pedicle angle was measured for the left and right pedicle. A total of 326 thoracic vertebrae and 126 lumbar vertebrae were included in the study. Pedicles are statistically larger but not longer for the lumbar vertebrae. An important variation of the pedicle angle is observed along the spine. In all pigs, an abrupt modification of the pedicle angle between T10 and T11 was observed, which corresponds to the level of the anticlinal vertebra which is the vertebra for which the spinous process is nearly perpendicular to the vertebral body. In conclusion, this study provides a quantitative database of pedicle screw implantation corridors in pigs of different ages. When using pedicle screws in experimental studies in pigs, these results should be considered for selecting the most suitable implants for the study but also to ensure a correct and safer screw position. Improving study procedures may limit postoperative complications and pain, thereby limiting the use of live animals. labels: #Animals#Lumbar Vertebrae#Pedicle Screws#Swine#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b'Neuropilin-1 (Nrp1) encodes the transmembrane cellular receptor neuropilin-1, which is associated with cardiovascular and neuronal development and was within the peak SNP interval on chromosome 8 in our prior GWAS study on age-related hearing loss (ARHL) in mice. In this study, we generated and characterized an inner ear-specific Nrp1 conditional knockout (CKO) mouse line because Nrp1 constitutive knockouts are embryonic lethal. In situ hybridization demonstrated weak Nrp1 mRNA expression late in embryonic cochlear development, but increased expression in early postnatal stages when cochlear hair cell innervation patterns have been shown to mature. At postnatal day 5, Nrp1 CKO mice showed disorganized outer spiral bundles and enlarged microvessels of the stria vascularis (SV) but normal spiral ganglion cell (SGN) density and presynaptic ribbon body counts; however, we observed enlarged SV microvessels, reduced SGN density, and a reduction of presynaptic ribbons in the outer hair cell region of 4-month-old Nrp1 CKO mice. In addition, we demonstrated elevated hearing thresholds of the 2-month-old and 4-month-old Nrp1 CKO mice at frequencies ranging from 4 to 32kHz when compared to 2-month-old mice. These data suggest that conditional loss of Nrp1 in the inner ear leads to progressive hearing loss in mice. We also demonstrated that mice with a truncated variant of Nrp1 show cochlear axon guidance defects and that exogenous semaphorin-3A, a known neuropilin-1 receptor agonist, repels SGN axons in vitro. These data suggest that Neuropilin-1/Semaphorin-3A signaling may also serve a role in neuronal pathfinding in the developing cochlea. In summary, our results here support a model whereby Neuropilin-1/Semaphorin-3A signaling is critical for the functional and morphological integrity of the cochlea and that Nrp1 may play a role in ARHL. labels: #Animals#Female#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Neuropilin-1#Semaphorin-3A#Signal Transduction#Spiral Ganglion'
b'BACKGROUND: Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted nematode that can replicate within its host, leading to long-lasting and potentially fatal infections. It is ubiquitous and highly prevalent in Cambodia. The extent of morbidity associated with S. stercoralis infection is difficult to assess due to the broad spectrum of symptoms and, thus, remains uncertain.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Clinical signs were compared among S. stercoralis infected vs. non-infected participants in a cross-sectional survey conducted in 2012 in eight villages of Northern Cambodia, and before and after treatment with a single oral dose of ivermectin (200\xce\xbcg/kg BW) among participants harboring S. stercoralis. Growth retardation among schoolchildren and adolescents was assessed using height-for-age and thinness using body mass index-for-age. S. stercoralis prevalence was 31.1% among 2,744 participants. Urticaria (55% vs. 47%, OR: 1.4, 95% CI: 1.1-1.6) and itching (52% vs. 48%, OR: 1.2, 95% CI: 1.0-1.4) were more frequently reported by infected participants. Gastrointestinal, dermatological, and respiratory symptoms were less prevalent in 103 mono-infected participants after treatment. Urticaria (66% vs. 11%, OR: 0.03, 95% CI: 0.01-0.1) and abdominal pain (81 vs. 27%, OR: 0.07, 95% CI: 0.02-0.2) mostly resolved by treatment. S. stercoralis infection was associated with stunting, with 2.5-fold higher odds in case of heavy infection.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The morbidity associated with S. stercoralis confirmed the importance of gastrointestinal and dermatological symptoms unrelated to parasite load, and long-term chronic effects when associated with malnutrition. The combination of high prevalence and morbidity calls for the integration of S. stercoralis into ongoing STH control measures in Cambodia. labels: #Adolescent#Animals#Antinematodal Agents#Cambodia#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#Feces#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#Ivermectin#Male#Morbidity#Prevalence#Rural Population#Strongyloides stercoralis#Strongyloidiasis'
b'Supplementation of exogenous enzymes in chickens has been widely practiced, yet mechanisms responsible are not fully delineated. To investigate the effects of the dietary lysozyme on the growth performance and immunity of broiler chickens, a total of 120 one-day-old Ross 308 chicks were randomly allocated into four groups, each having three replicates (30 birds/group). The chicks were fed the starter (1-21 d) and grower (22-35 d) diets supplemented with 0 (control), 70 (LYZ70), 90 (LYZ90) and 120 (LYZ120) g of lysozyme 10%\xc2\xae per ton of basal diet for five weeks. The results revealed significant improvement in the growth performance and gut environment. There were significant decreases (P<0.05 or 0.01) in the harmful fecal Coliform and Clostridia and an increase (P \xcb\x82 0.05) in the beneficial Lactobacillus in the lysozyme-supplemented groups, especially in LYZ90. Moreover, the mRNA expressions of Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), interferon-gamma (IFN-\xce\xb3), interleukin-10 (IL-10), and interleukin-18 (IL-18) were upregulated in response to lysozyme supplementation. In comparison to control, LYZ90 fed birds had a significant increase (P<0.01) in the GSH-Px gene expression that enhances the antioxidant status of the gut. Expression of the biomarkers involved in the gut non-specific immunity indicated significant increases in the mRNA expression of INF-\xce\xb3 (P<0.001), IL-10 (P<0.001), and IL-18 (P<0.05) in LYZ90 group. Also, serum globulin levels were significantly elevated (P \xcb\x82 0.05) in lysozyme-supplemented groups. Histologically, the intestinal villi length and crypts depth were also enhanced (P \xcb\x82 0.05) by dietary lysozyme supplementation. In conclusion, supplementation of broiler chickens with exogenous lysozyme, especially at 90 g of lysozyme per ton of basal diet dose rate, improved the growth performance, gut antioxidant status, and nonspecific immunity of broiler chickens. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Chickens#Diet#Muramidase#RNA, Messenger'
b'OBJECTIVE: Letters from the hospital to the general practitioner are important for maintaining continuity of care. Although doctors feel letters are important, they are often not written on time. To improve the number and timeliness of letters sent from the hospital outpatient department to the general practitioner using an email-based intervention evaluated in a randomized controlled trial.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Users were interviewed to determine the requirements for the intervention. Due to high between-doctor variation at baseline, doctors were matched for baseline performance and pair-randomized. The effectiveness of the intervention was assessed using meta-analytic methods. The primary outcome was the number of patient visits which should have generated a letter that had a letter by 90 days after the visit. Satisfaction was assessed with an anonymous survey.RESULTS: The intervention consisted of a monthly email reminder for each doctor containing a list of his or her patients who were (over)due for a letter. Doctors in the intervention group had 21% fewer patient visits which did not have a letter by 90 days (OR = 5.7, p = 0.0020). Satisfaction with the system was very high.DISCUSSION: This study examines the effect of a simple reminder in absence of other interventions, and provides an example of an effective non-interruptive decision support intervention.CONCLUSION: A simple email reminder improved the number and timeliness of letters from the outpatient department to the general practitioner, and was viewed as a useful service by its users. labels: #General Practitioners#Humans#Outpatient Clinics, Hospital#Patient Satisfaction#Time and Motion Studies'
b'During running at a constant speed, the optimal stride frequency (SF) can be derived from the u-shaped relationship between SF and heart rate (HR). Changing SF towards the optimum of this relationship is beneficial for energy expenditure and may positively change biomechanics of running. In the current study, the effects of speed on the optimal SF and the nature of the u-shaped relation were empirically tested using Generalized Estimating Equations. To this end, HR was recorded from twelve healthy (4 males, 8 females) inexperienced runners, who completed runs at three speeds. The three speeds were 90%, 100% and 110% of self-selected speed. A self-selected SF (SFself) was determined for each of the speeds prior to the speed series. The speed series started with a free-chosen SF condition, followed by five imposed SF conditions (SFself, 70, 80, 90, 100 strides\xc2\xb7min-1) assigned in random order. The conditions lasted 3 minutes with 2.5 minutes of walking in between. SFself increased significantly (p<0.05) with speed with averages of 77, 79, 80 strides\xc2\xb7min-1 at 2.4, 2.6, 2.9 m\xc2\xb7s-1, respectively). As expected, the relation between SF and HR could be described by a parabolic curve for all speeds. Speed did not significantly affect the curvature, nor did it affect optimal SF. We conclude that over the speed range tested, inexperienced runners may not need to adapt their SF to running speed. However, since SFself were lower than the SFopt of 83 strides\xc2\xb7min-1, the runners could reduce HR by increasing their SFself. labels: #Adult#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Running#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Beta-blockers are first-line therapy in patients with congenital long-QT syndrome (LQTS).OBJECTIVE: This study sought to determine the differences in effectiveness of beta-blockers on risk reduction according to LQTS genotype.METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CENTRAL databases to investigate the use of beta-blockers (atenolol, nadolol, propranolol, and metoprolol) in patients with LQTS. Hazard ratio (HR) and relative risk (RR) were extracted or calculated from studies reporting cardiac events (syncope, aborted cardiac arrest (ACA), or sudden cardiac death (SCD)).RESULTS: Among 2,113 articles searched, 10 studies (7 registry-based cohort studies (Cohort) and 3 interrupted time series studies (ITS)) involving 9,727 patients were included. In a meta-analysis using a random-effect model, the use of beta-blocker was associated with significant risk reduction of all cardiac events (HR 0.49, p<0.001 in Cohort; RR 0.39, p<0.001 in ITS) and serious cardiac events (ACA or SCD) (HR 0.47, p<0.001 in Cohort). In both LQT1 and LQT2, the risk was reduced with beta-blocker therapy in Cohort (HR 0.59 in LQT1; HR 0.39 in LQT2) as well as ITS (RR 0.29 in LQT1; RR 0.48 in LQT2). Among the beta-blockers, nadolol showed a significant risk reduction in both LQT1 and LQT2 (HR 0.47 and 0.27, respectively), whereas atenolol and propranolol decreased the risk only in LQT1 (HR 0.36 and 0.46, respectively). Metoprolol showed no significant reduction in either genotype. In LQT3, beta-blocker therapy was not as effective as LQT1 or LQT2; however, it was inconclusive due to data insufficiency.CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis showed that beta-blockers were effective in reducing risk of cardiac events in patients with LQTS. Among them, nadolol was effective in LQT1 and LQT2, whereas other drugs showed different effectiveness depending on LQT genotype. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Female#Genotype#Humans#Long QT Syndrome#Male'
b'Rhododendron spp. is an important ornamental species that is widely cultivated for landscape worldwide. Heat stress is a major obstacle for its cultivation in south China. Previous studies on rhododendron principally focused on its physiological and biochemical processes, which are involved in a series of stress tolerance. However, molecular or genetic properties of rhododendron\'s response to heat stress are still poorly understood. The phenotype and chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics parameters of four rhododendron cultivars were compared under normal or heat stress conditions, and a cultivar with highest heat tolerance, "Yanzhimi" (R. obtusum) was selected for transcriptome sequencing. A total of 325,429,240 high quality reads were obtained and assembled into 395,561 transcripts and 92,463 unigenes. Functional annotation showed that 38,724 unigenes had sequence similarity to known genes in at least one of the proteins or nucleotide databases used in this study. These 38,724 unigenes were categorized into 51 functional groups based on Gene Ontology classification and were blasted to 24 known cluster of orthologous groups. A total of 973 identified unigenes belonged to 57 transcription factor families, including the stress-related HSF, DREB, ZNF, and NAC genes. Photosynthesis was significantly enriched in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway, and the changed expression pattern was illustrated. The key pathways and signaling components that contribute to heat tolerance in rhododendron were revealed. These results provide a potentially valuable resource that can be used for heat-tolerance breeding. labels: #Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genes, Plant#Photosynthesis#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Rhododendron#Transcription, Genetic#Transcriptome'
b'The development of brain imaging techniques, in particular functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), made it possible to non-invasively study the hemispheric lateralization of cognitive brain functions in large cohorts. Comprehensive models of hemispheric lateralization are, however, still missing and should not only account for the hemispheric specialization of individual brain functions, but also for the interactions among different lateralized cognitive processes (e.g., language and visuospatial processing). This calls for robust and reliable paradigms to study hemispheric lateralization for various cognitive functions. While numerous reliable imaging paradigms have been developed for language, which represents the most prominent left-lateralized brain function, the reliability of imaging paradigms investigating typically right-lateralized brain functions, such as visuospatial processing, has received comparatively less attention. In the present study, we aimed to establish an fMRI paradigm that robustly and reliably identifies right-hemispheric activation evoked by visuospatial processing in individual subjects. In a first study, we therefore compared three frequently used paradigms for assessing visuospatial processing and evaluated their utility to robustly detect right-lateralized brain activity on a single-subject level. In a second study, we then assessed the test-retest reliability of the so-called Landmark task-the paradigm that yielded the most robust results in study 1. At the single-voxel level, we found poor reliability of the brain activation underlying visuospatial attention. This suggests that poor signal-to-noise ratios can become a limiting factor for test-retest reliability. This represents a common detriment of fMRI paradigms investigating visuospatial attention in general and therefore highlights the need for careful considerations of both the possibilities and limitations of the respective fMRI paradigm-in particular, when being interested in effects at the single-voxel level. Notably, however, when focusing on the reliability of measures of hemispheric lateralization (which was the main goal of study 2), we show that hemispheric dominance (quantified by the lateralization index, LI, with |LI|>0.4) of the evoked activation could be robustly determined in more than 62% and, if considering only two categories (i.e., left, right), in more than 93% of our subjects. Furthermore, the reliability of the lateralization strength (LI) was "fair" to "good". In conclusion, our results suggest that the degree of right-hemispheric dominance during visuospatial processing can be reliably determined using the Landmark task, both at the group and single-subject level, while at the same time stressing the need for future refinements of experimental paradigms and more sophisticated fMRI data acquisition techniques. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Photic Stimulation#Reproducibility of Results#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Opuntia plants grow naturally in areas where temperatures are extreme and highly variable in the day during the entire year. These plants survive through different adaptations to respond to adverse environmental conditions. Despite this capability, it is unknown how CAM photosynthetic activity and growth in Opuntia plantlets is affected by constant heat or cold. Therefore, the main objective of this research was to evaluate the short-term effect of high (40\xc2\xb0C) and low (4\xc2\xb0C) continuous temperatures on the photosynthetic efficiency, the organic acid content (malic acid) and the relative growth rate (RGR) in seven-month-old Opuntia streptacantha plantlets during 5, 10, and 15 days. Chlorophyll fluorescence analysis allowed us to determine that high temperatures negatively impact the photosynthetic efficiency of O. streptacantha plantlets, which exhibited the lowest values of maximum quantum efficiency of the photosystem II (Fv/Fm = 52%, Fv/F0 = 85%), operational quantum yield of PS (\xce\xa6PSII = 65%) and relative electron transport rate (rETR = 65%), as well as highest values of basal fluorescence (F0 = 226%) during 15 days of treatment. Similarly, low temperatures decreased Fv/Fm (16%), Fv/F0 (50%), \xce\xa6PSII and rETR (16%). High temperatures also decreased nocturnal acidification in approximately 34-50%, whereas low temperatures increased it by 30-36%. Additionally, both continuous temperatures affected drastically diurnal consumption of malic acid, which was related to a significant RGR inhibition, where the specific photosynthetic structure area component was the most affected. Our results allowed determining that, despite the high tolerance to extreme temperatures described for Opuntia plants, young individuals of O. streptacantha suffered photosynthetic impairment that led to the inhibition of their growth. Thus, the main findings reported in this study can help to predict the potential impact of climatic change on the establishment and survival of succulent species of arid and semiarid regions of Mexico. labels: #Acids#Chlorophyll#Circadian Rhythm#Fluorescence#Opuntia#Photosynthesis#Temperature'
b'BACKGROUND: Country-specific forecasts of the growing non-communicable disease (NCD) burden in ageing HIV-positive patients will be key to guide future HIV policies. We provided the first national forecasts for Italy and the Unites States of America (USA) and quantified direct cost of caring for these increasingly complex patients.METHODS AND SETTING: We adapted an individual-based model of ageing HIV-positive patients to Italy and the USA, which followed patients on HIV-treatment as they aged and developed NCDs (chronic kidney disease, diabetes, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, non-AIDS malignancies, myocardial infarctions and strokes). The models were parameterised using data on 7,469 HIV-positive patients from the Italian Cohort Na\xc3\xafve to Antiretrovirals Foundation Study and 3,748 commercially-insured patients in the USA and extrapolated to national level using national surveillance data.RESULTS: The model predicted that mean age of HIV-positive patients will increase from 46 to 59 in Italy and from 49 to 58 in the USA in 2015-2035. The proportion of patients in Italy and the USA diagnosed with \xe2\x89\xa51 NCD is estimated to increase from 64% and 71% in 2015 to 89% and 89% by 2035, respectively, driven by moderate cardiovascular disease (CVD) (hypertension and dyslipidaemia), diabetes and malignancies in both countries. NCD treatment costs as a proportion of total direct HIV costs will increase from 11% to 23% in Italy and from 40% to 56% in the USA in 2015-2035.CONCLUSIONS: HIV patient profile in Italy and the USA is shifting to older patients diagnosed with multiple co-morbidity. This will increase NCD treatment costs and require multi-disciplinary patient management. labels: #Adult#Female#HIV Infections#Health Care Costs#Humans#Italy#Male#Models, Theoretical#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Sirtuins are NAD+ dependent deacetylases, which regulate mitochondrial energy metabolism as well as cellular response to stress. The NAD/NADH-system plays a crucial role in oxidative phosphorylation linking sirtuins and the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Furthermore, sirtuins are able to directly deacetylate and activate different complexes of the respiratory chain. This prompted us to analyse sirtuin levels in skin fibroblasts from patients with cytochrome c-oxidase (COX) deficiency and to test the impact of different pharmaceutical activators of sirtuins (SRT1720, paeonol) to modulate sirtuins and possibly respiratory chain enzymes in patient cells in vitro.METHODS: We assayed intracellular levels of sirtuin 1 and the mitochondrial sirtuins SIRT3 and SIRT4 in human fibroblasts from patients with COX- deficiency. Furthermore, sirtuins were measured after inhibiting complex IV in healthy control fibroblasts by cyanide and after incubation with activators SRT1720 and paeonol. To determine the effect of sirtuin inhibition at the cellular level we measured total cellular acetylation (control and patient cells, with and without treatment) by Western blot.RESULTS: We observed a significant decrease in cellular levels of all three sirtuins at the activity, protein and transcriptional level (by 15% to 50%) in COX-deficient cells. Additionally, the intracellular concentration of NAD+ was reduced in patient cells. We mimicked the biochemical phenotype of COX- deficiency by incubating healthy fibroblasts with cyanide and observed reduced sirtuin levels. A pharmacological activation of sirtuins resulted in normalized sirtuin levels in patient cells. Hyper acetylation was also reversible after treatment with sirtuin activators. Pharmacological modulation of sirtuins resulted in altered respiratory chain complex activities.CONCLUSIONS: We found inhibition of situins 1, 3 and 4 at activity, protein and transcriptional levels in fibroblasts from patient with COX-deficiency. Pharmacological activators were able to restore reduced sirtuin levels and thereby modulate respiratory chain activities. labels: #Acetylation#Electron Transport#Electron Transport Complex IV#Humans#Mitochondria#Reactive Oxygen Species#Sirtuins#Sodium Cyanide'
b"Rabies is a preventable fatal disease that causes about 61,000 human deaths annually around the world, mostly in developing countries. In Africa, several studies have shown that vaccination of pets is effective in controlling the disease. An annual vaccination coverage of 70% is recommended by the World Health Organization as a control threshold. The effective control of rabies requires vaccination coverage of owned dogs. Identification of the factors determining dog owners' choice to vaccinate is necessary for evidence-based policy-making. However, for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the limited data on rabies vaccination coverage makes it difficult for its control and formulation of appropriate policies. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Kinshasa (Lemba commune) with dog-owning households and owned dogs as study populations. The association between dog vaccination and independent factors (household socio-demographics characteristics, dog characteristics, knowledge of rabies and location of veterinary offices/clinics) was performed with Epi-info 7. The Odds Ratio (OR) and p-value<0.05 were used to determine levels of significance. A total of 166 households owning dogs and 218 owned dogs were investigated. 47% of the dogs had been vaccinated within one year preceding the survey which is higher than the critical coverage (25 to 40%) necessary to interrupt rabies transmission but below the 70% threshold recommended by WHO for control. The determinants of vaccination included socio-economic level of the household (OR = 2.9, p<0.05), formal education level of the dog owner (OR = 4, p<0.05), type of residence (OR = 4.6, p<0.05), knowledge of rabies disease (OR = 8.0, p<0.05), knowledge of location of veterinary offices/clinics (OR = 3.4, p<0.05), dog gender (OR = 1.6, p<0.05) and dog breed (OR = 2.1, p<0.05). This study shows that the vaccination coverage in this area can easily reach the WHO threshold if supplemented by mass vaccination campaigns. labels: #Animals#Democratic Republic of the Congo#Dogs#Humans#Ownership#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines#Socioeconomic Factors#Vaccination"
b'OBJECTIVES: The Northwestern University SuperAging Program studies a rare cohort of individuals over age 80 with episodic memory ability at least as good as middle-age adults to determine what factors contribute to their elite memory performance. As psychological well-being is positively correlated with cognitive performance in older adults, the present study examined whether aspects of psychological well-being distinguish cognitive SuperAgers from their cognitively average-for-age, same-age peers.METHOD: Thirty-one SuperAgers and 19 cognitively average-for-age peers completed the Ryff 42-item Psychological Well-Being questionnaire, comprised of 6 subscales: Autonomy, Positive Relations with Others, Environmental Mastery, Personal Growth, Purpose in Life, and Self-Acceptance.RESULTS: The groups did not differ on demographic factors, including estimated premorbid intelligence. Consistent with inclusion criteria, SuperAgers had better episodic memory scores. Compared to cognitively average-for-age peers, SuperAgers endorsed greater levels of Positive Relations with Others. The groups did not differ on other PWB-42 subscales.DISCUSSION: While SuperAgers and their cognitively average-for-age peers reported similarly high levels of psychological well-being across multiple dimensions, SuperAgers endorsed greater levels of positive social relationships. This psychological feature could conceivably have a biological relationship to the greater thickness of the anterior cingulate gyrus and higher density of von Economo neurons previously reported in SuperAgers. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Humans#Male#Memory, Episodic#Neuropsychological Tests#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'Human malignant mesothelioma is a chemoresistant tumour that develops from mesothelial cells, commonly associated with asbestos exposure. Malignant mesothelioma incidence rates in European countries are still rising and Australia has one of the highest burdens of malignant mesothelioma on a population basis in the world. Therapy using systemic delivery of free cytotoxic agents is associated with many undesirable side effects due to non-selectivity, and is thus dose-limited which limits its therapeutic potential. Therefore, increasing the selectivity of anti-cancer agents has the potential to dramatically enhance drug efficacy and reduce toxicity. EnGeneIC Dream Vectors (EDV) are antibody-targeted nanocells which can be loaded with cytotoxic drugs and delivered to specific cancer cells via bispecific antibodies (BsAbs) which target the EDV and a cancer cell-specific receptor, simultaneously. BsAbs were designed to target doxorubicin-loaded EDVs to cancer cells via cell surface mesothelin (MSLN). Flow cytometry was used to investigate cell binding and induction of apoptosis, and confocal microscopy to visualize internalization. Mouse xenograft models were used to assess anti-tumour effects in vivo, followed by immunohistochemistry for ex vivo evaluation of proliferation and necrosis. BsAb-targeted, doxorubicin-loaded EDVs were able to bind to and internalize within mesothelioma cells in vitro via MSLN receptors and induce apoptosis. In mice xenografts, the BsAb-targeted, doxorubicin-loaded EDVs suppressed the tumour growth and also decreased cell proliferation. Thus, the use of MSLN-specific antibodies to deliver encapsulated doxorubicin can provide a novel and alternative modality for treatment of mesothelioma. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Mesothelioma#Mice#Receptors, Cell Surface#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'OBJECTIVE: To assess whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is superior to primary debulking surgery (PDS) with regard to optimal cytoreduction, peri-operative morbidity, mortality, and quality of life (QOL) in advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).METHODS: We searched the PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Web of Science, Registers of Clinical Trials for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing NACT to PDS in women with Federation of International Gynaecologists and Obstetricians stage \xe2\x85\xa2-\xe2\x85\xa3 EOC. RevMan 5.3 software was utilized for statistical analysis.RESULTS: Four RCTs involving 1,607 women with advanced EOC were included. Compared with PDS, NACT provided a higher rate of complete cytoreduction (risk ratio [RR], 1.95; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.33 to 2.87), optimal cytoreduction (RR: 1.61 [95%CI: 1.05 to 2.47]), but there was no significant difference in residual disease 0-1 cm (p = 0.49). NACT was associated with lower peri-operative morbidity with respect to infection (RR: 0.30 [95% CI: 0.16 to 0.56]), gastrointestinal fistula (RR: 0.24 [95% CI: 0.06 to 0.95]), any grade 3 or 4 adverse event (RR: 0.29 [95% CI: 0.11 to 0.78]), and less post-surgical death within 28 days (RR: 0.14 [95% CI: 0.04 to 0.49]). NACT provided better QOL in terms of fatigue (weight mean difference [WMD], -3.28; [95% CI: -3.99 to -2.57]), role functioning (WMD: 5.29 [95% CI: 4.44 to 6.14]), emotional functioning (WMD: 6.19 [95% CI: 5.57 to 6.82]), and cognitive functioning (WMD: 1.02 [95% CI: 0.43 to 1.61]) at 6-month follow-up compared with PDS.CONCLUSIONS: NACT is associated with superior optimal cytoreduction, lower peri-operative morbidity as well as post-surgical mortality, and better QOL compared to initial surgery in patients with advanced EOC. Future research should focus on improving the efficacy of NACT. labels: #Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Humans#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#Quality of Life#Treatment Outcome'
b"Severe influenza infections are featured by acute lung injury, a syndrome of increased pulmonary microvascular permeability. A growing number of evidences have shown that influenza A virus induces cytoskeletal rearrangement and permeability increase in endothelial cells. Although miRNA's involvement in the regulation of influenza virus infection and endothelial cell (EC) function has been well documented, little is known about the miRNA profiles in influenza-infected endothelial cells. Using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) as cell models, the present study aims to explore the differential miRNAs in influenza virus-infected ECs and analyze their target genes involved in EC permeability regulation. As the results showed, permeability increased and F-actin cytoskeleton reorganized after HUVECs infected with influenza A virus (CA07 or PR8) at 30 MOI. MicroRNA microarray revealed a multitude of miRNAs differentially expressed in HUVECs after influenza virus infection. Through target gene prediction, we found that a series of miRNAs were involved in PKC, Rho/ROCK, HRas/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways associated with permeability regulation, and most of these miRNAs were down-regulated after flu infection. It has been reported that PKC, Rho/ROCK, HRas/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways are activated by flu infection and play important roles in permeability regulation. Therefore, the cumulative effects of these down-regulated miRNAs which synergistically enhanced activation of PKC, Rho/ROCK, Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways, can eventually lead to actin rearrangement and hyperpermeability in flu-infected HUVECs. labels: #Capillary Permeability#Gene Expression Profiling#Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells#Humans#Influenza A virus#MicroRNAs#Umbilical Veins"
b'Soil salinity, a major environmental stress, reduces agricultural productivity by restricting plant development and growth. Jute (Corchorus spp.), a commercially important bast fiber crop, includes two commercially cultivated species, Corchorus capsularis and Corchorus olitorius. We conducted high-throughput transcriptome sequencing of 24 C. capsularis and C. olitorius samples under salt stress and found 127 common differentially expressed genes (DEGs); additionally, 4489 and 492 common DEGs were identified in the root and leaf tissues, respectively, of both Corchorus species. Further, 32, 196, and 11 common differentially expressed transcription factors (DTFs) were detected in the leaf, root, or both tissues, respectively. Several Gene Ontology (GO) terms were enriched in NY and YY. A Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis revealed numerous DEGs in both species. Abscisic acid and cytokinin signal pathways enriched respectively about 20 DEGs in leaves and roots of both NY and YY. The Ca2+, mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling and oxidative phosphorylation pathways were also found to be related to the plant response to salt stress, as evidenced by the DEGs in the roots of both species. These results provide insight into salt stress response mechanisms in plants as well as a basis for future breeding of salt-tolerant cultivars. labels: #Corchorus#Salinity#Stress, Physiological#Transcriptome'
b'The multifunctional Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a serine/threonine kinase important in transducing intracellular Ca2+ signals. While in vitro data regarding the role of CaMKII in the regulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) are contradictory, its role in endothelial function in vivo remains unknown. Using two novel transgenic models to express CaMKII inhibitor peptides selectively in endothelium, we examined the effect of CaMKII on eNOS activation, NO production, vasomotor tone and blood pressure. Under baseline conditions, CaMKII activation was low in the aortic wall. Consistently, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate and plasma NO levels were unaltered by endothelial CaMKII inhibition. Moreover, endothelial CaMKII inhibition had no significant effect on NO-dependent vasodilation. These results were confirmed in studies of aortic rings transduced with adenovirus expressing a CaMKII inhibitor peptide. In cultured endothelial cells, bradykinin treatment produced the anticipated rapid influx of Ca2+ and transient CaMKII and eNOS activation, whereas CaMKII inhibition blocked eNOS phosphorylation on Ser-1179 and dephosphorylation at Thr-497. Ca2+/CaM binding to eNOS and resultant NO production in vitro were decreased under CaMKII inhibition. Our results demonstrate that CaMKII plays an important role in transient bradykinin-driven eNOS activation in vitro, but does not regulate NO production, vasorelaxation or blood pressure in vivo under baseline conditions. labels: #Animals#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Line#Humans#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type III#Phosphorylation'
b'Oral mucositis (OM) is an important side effect of cancer treatment, characterized by ulcerative lesions in the mucosa of patients undergoing radiotherapy or chemotherapy, which has marked effects on patient quality of life and cancer therapy continuity. Considering that few protocols have demonstrated efficacy in preventing this side effect, the aim of this study was to examine the effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on OM induced by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in hamsters by studying signaling pathways. OM was induced in hamsters by 5-FU followed by mechanical trauma (MT) on day 4. On day 10, the animals were euthanized. The experimental groups included saline, MT, 5-FU, and DEX (0.25, 0.5, or 1 mg/kg). Macroscopic, histopathological, and immunohistochemical analyses as well as immunofluorescence experiments were performed on the oral mucosa of the animals. The oral mucosal samples were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). DEX (0.5 or 1 mg/kg) reduced inflammation and ulceration of the oral mucosa of hamsters. In addition, DEX (1 mg/kg) reduced the cytokine levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-\xce\xb1, interleukin (IL)-1\xce\xb2, and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). DEX (1 mg/kg) also reduced the immunoexpression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, transforming growth factor (TGF)-\xce\xb2, MIF, Smad 2/3, Smad 2/3 phosphorylated and NF\xce\xbaB p65 in the jugal mucosa. Finally, DEX (1 mg/kg) increased interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK-M), glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (GILZ), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MKP1) gene expression and reduced NF\xce\xbaB p65 and serine threonine kinase (AKt) gene expression, relative to the 5-FU group. Thus, DEX improved OM induced by 5-FU in hamsters. labels: #Animals#Cricetinae#Cyclooxygenase 2#Cytokines#Dexamethasone#Fluorouracil#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Mesocricetus#NF-kappa B#Phosphorylation#Smad Proteins#Stomatitis#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b"The three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus L., hereafter 'stickleback') is a common mesopredatory fish in marine, coastal and freshwater areas. In large parts of the Baltic Sea, stickleback densities have increased>10-fold during the last decades, and it is now one of the dominating fish species both in terms of biomass and effects on lower trophic levels. Still, relatively little is known about its diet-knowledge which is essential to understand the increasing role sticklebacks play in the ecosystem. Fish diet analyses typically rely on visual identification of stomach contents, a labour-intensive method that is made difficult by prey digestion and requires expert taxonomic knowledge. However, advances in DNA-based metabarcoding methods promise a simultaneous identification of most prey items, even from semi-digested tissue. Here, we studied the diet of stickleback from the western Baltic Sea coast using both DNA metabarcoding and visual analysis of stomach contents. Using the cytochrome oxidase (CO1) marker we identified 120 prey taxa in the diet, belonging to 15 phyla, 83 genera and 84 species. Compared to previous studies, this is an unusually high prey diversity. Chironomids, cladocerans and harpacticoids were dominating prey items. Large sticklebacks were found to feed more on benthic prey, such as amphipods, gastropods and isopods. DNA metabarcoding gave much higher taxonomic resolution (median rank genus) than visual analysis (median rank order), and many taxa identified using barcoding could not have been identified visually. However, a few taxa identified by visual inspection were not revealed by barcoding. In summary, our results suggest that the three-spined stickleback feeds on a wide variety of both pelagic and benthic organisms, indicating that the strong increase in stickleback populations may affect many parts of the Baltic Sea coastal ecosystem. labels: #Animals#DNA Barcoding, Taxonomic#Ecosystem#Smegmamorpha"
b'After the introduction of a ban on the use of antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) for livestock, the feeding environment, including the composition of animal intestinal microbiota, has changed rapidly. We hypothesized that the microbial genomes have also been affected by this legal prohibition, and investigated an important member of the swine gut microbiota, Lactobacillus salivarius, with a pan-genomic approach. Here, we isolated 21 L. salivarius strains composed of 6 strains isolated before the AGP prohibition (SBPs) and 15 strains isolated after the AGP prohibition (SAPs) at an interval of a decade, and the draft genomes were generated de novo. Several genomic differences between SBPs and SAPs were identified, although the number and function of antibiotic resistance genes were not different. SBPs showed larger genome size and a higher number of orthologs, as well as lower genetic diversity, than SAPs. SBPs had genes associated with the utilization of L-rhamnose and D-tagatose for energy production. Because these sugars are also used in exopolysaccharide (EPS) synthesis, we tried to identify differences in biofilm formation-associated genes. The genes for the production of EPSs and extracellular proteins were different in terms of amino acid sequences. Indeed, SAPs formed dense biofilm and survived better than SBPs in the swine intestinal environment. These results suggest that SAPs have evolved and adapted to protect themselves from new selection pressure of the swine intestinal microenvironment by forming dense biofilms, adopting a distinct antibiotic resistance strategy. This finding is particularly important to understand the evolutionary changes in host-microbe interaction and provide detailed insight for the development of effective probiotics for livestock. labels: #Animals#Biofilms#Drug Resistance, Microbial#Genome, Bacterial#Intestines#Lactobacillus salivarius#Probiotics#Swine'
b'Although numerous studies have demonstrated the key role of bacterial diversity in soil functions and ecosystem services, little is known about the variations and determinants of such diversity on a nationwide scale. The overall objectives of this study were i) to describe the bacterial taxonomic richness variations across France, ii) to identify the ecological processes (i.e. selection by the environment and dispersal limitation) influencing this distribution, and iii) to develop a statistical predictive model of soil bacterial richness. We used the French Soil Quality Monitoring Network (RMQS), which covers all of France with 2,173 sites. The soil bacterial richness (i.e. OTU number) was determined by pyrosequencing 16S rRNA genes and related to the soil characteristics, climatic conditions, geomorphology, land use and space. Mapping of bacterial richness revealed a heterogeneous spatial distribution, structured into patches of about 111km, where the main drivers were the soil physico-chemical properties (18% of explained variance), the spatial descriptors (5.25%, 1.89% and 1.02% for the fine, medium and coarse scales, respectively), and the land use (1.4%). Based on these drivers, a predictive model was developed, which allows a good prediction of the bacterial richness (R2adj of 0.56) and provides a reference value for a given pedoclimatic condition. labels: #Bacteria#France#Polymerase Chain Reaction#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Soil Microbiology'
b'For a detailed investigation of the degradation of lysine in Phaeobacter inhibens DSM 17395, stable isotope experiments with uniformly 13C labeled L-lysine were carried out with lysine adapted cells and the metabolites were analyzed using GC/MS and HPLC/MS. A non-targeted stable isotope analysis was used which compares labeled and not labeled samples to determine the Mass Isotopomer Distribution not only for known metabolites but for all labeled compounds in our GC/MS analysis. We show that P. inhibens uses at least two parallel pathways for the first degradation steps of lysine. Further investigations identified L-pipecolate as an L-lysine degradation intermediate in P. inhibens. The analysis of HPLC/MS data as well as the labeling data of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates show that L-lysine is not only catabolized directly to acetyl-CoA but also via the ethylmalonyl-CoA-pathway, leading to entry points into the TCA cycle via acetyl-CoA, succinyl-CoA, and malate. Altogether the presented data give a detailed insight into the catabolization of L-lysine following the fate of 13C labeled carbon via several ways into the TCA cycle. labels: #Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Citric Acid Cycle#Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry#Isotopes#Lysine#Rhodobacteraceae'
b'In this paper, we investigate a step-stress partially accelerated lifetime test for the four-component hybrid systems with Type-II progressive hybrid censoring scheme while the life time of system component follows exponential failure rate. In many cases, the exact component causing the system failure cannot be identified and the cause of failure is masked. Based on Type-II progressively hybrid censored and masked data, the maximum likelihood estimations for unknown parameters and acceleration factor are obtained. In addition, approximate confidence interval and bootstrap confidence interval are presented by using the asymptotic distributions of the maximum likelihood estimations for unknown parameters and bootstrap method, respectively. Finally, the proposed method is illustrated through the simulation studies. labels: #Likelihood Functions#Models, Statistical'
b"Regeneration of injured skeletal muscles is affected by fibrosis, which can be improved by the administration of angiotensin II (AngII) receptor (ATR) blockers in normotensive animals. However, the role of ATR in skeletal muscle fibrosis in hypertensive organisms has not been investigated yet. The tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Wistar rats (WR) were lacerated and a lentivector encoding a microRNA targeting AngII receptor type 1 (At1) (Lv-mirAT1a) or control (Lv-mirCTL) was injected. The TA muscles were collected after 30 days to evaluate fibrosis by histology and gene expression by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and Western blot. SHR's myoblasts were analyzed by RT-qPCR, 48 h after transduction. In the SHR's TA, AT1 protein expression was 23.5-fold higher than in WR without injury, but no difference was observed in the angiotensin II receptor type 2 (AT2) protein expression. TA laceration followed by suture (LS) produced fibrosis in the SHR (23.3\xc2\xb18.5%) and WR (7.9\xc2\xb11.5%). Lv-mirAT1 treatment decreased At1 gene expression in 50% and reduced fibrosis to 7% 30 days after. RT-qPCR showed that reduction in At1 expression is due to downregulation of the At1a but not of the At1b. RT-qPCR of myoblasts from SHR transduced with Lv-mirAT1a showed downregulation of the Tgf-b1, Tgf-b2, Smad3, Col1a1, and Col3a1 genes by mirAT1a. In vivo and in vitro studies indicate that hypertension overproduces skeletal muscle fibrosis, and AngII-AT1a signaling is the main pathway of fibrosis in SHR. Moreover, muscle fibrosis can be treated specifically by in loco injection of Lv-mirAT1a without affecting other organs. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Fibrosis#Gene Expression Profiling#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#Rats#Rats, Inbred SHR#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptors, Angiotensin#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction"
b"This study evaluates the sustained analgesic effect of ketorolac-eluting thermosensitive biodegradable hydrogel in the plantar incisional pain model of the rat hind-paw. A ketorolac-embedded 2, 2'-Bis (2-oxazolin) (BOX) linking methoxy-poly(ethylene glycol) and poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (mPEG-PLGA) diblock copolymer (BOX copolymer) was synthesized as keto-hydrogel based on optimal sol-gel phase transition and in vitro drug release profile. The effect of keto-hydrogel on postoperative pain (POP) was assessed using the established plantar incisional pain model in hind-paw of rats and compared to that of ketorolac solution. Pain and sensory threshold, as well as pain scoring, were evaluated with behavioral tests by means of anesthesiometer and incapacitance apparatus, respectively. Pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6, VEGF, and IL-1\xce\xb2) around incisional wounds were measured by ELISA. Tissue histology was assessed using hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining. Ten mg/mL (25 wt%) keto-hydrogel showed a sol-gel transition at 26.4\xc2\xb0C with a 10-day sustained drug release profile in vitro. Compared to ketorolac solution group, the concentration of ketorolac in tissue fluid was higher in the keto-hydrogel group during the first 18 h of application. Keto-hydrogel elevated pain and sensory threshold, increased weight-bearing capacity, and significantly reduced the levels of TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6, and IL-1\xce\xb2 while enhanced VEGF in tissue fluid. Histologic analysis reveals greater epithelialization and collagen deposition around wound treated with keto-hydrogel. In conclusion, our study suggests that keto-hydrogel is an ideal compound to treat POP with a secondary gain of improved incisional wound healing. labels: #Animals#Biocompatible Materials#Disease Models, Animal#Hydrogels#Pain, Postoperative#Rats"
b'The periwinkle Littorina saxatilis has repeatedly evolved both a small, fragile and globose "wave ecotype" confined to wave-swept shores and a large, robust and elongated "crab ecotype" found in nearby crab-rich but less-exposed shores. This phenotypic divergence is assumed to reflect, in some part, local adaptation to wave exposure, but this hypothesis has received incomplete experimental testing. Here, we report a test of the prediction that the wave ecotype has a higher capacity to resist water flow than the crab ecotype. We sampled snails along a crab-wave transect and measured their resistance to dislodgement in a high-speed water flume with water speeds that match those of breaking waves in a range of relevant field conditions. Snails from the wave environment were consistently more resistant to water flow than snails from the crab environment and high resistance was positively correlated with the surface area of the foot and the area of the outer aperture contour both relative to shell size, and to the extent of lateral shell compression. In a separate experiment, we found that snails raised in still water in a common garden showed higher resistance to water flow if originating from a wave environment than from a crab environment, and this was true both at juvenile (2 weeks) and adult (10 months) developmental stages. This result suggests genetic control of a distinct "wave adapted" phenotype, likely to be maintained under strong divergent selection between the two adjacent habitats. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Animals#Ecosystem#Snails'
b'BACKGROUND: Netrin-1, a secreted laminin-like protein identified as an axon guidance molecule, has been shown to be of critical importance in the cardiovascular system. Recent studies have revealed pro-angiogenic, anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory properties of netrin-1 as well as cardioprotective actions against myocardial injury in diabetic mice.AIM: To examine the role of netrin-1 in diabetes-and high glucose (HG)-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction (VED) using netrin-1 transgenic mice (Tg3) and cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC).MAIN OUTCOME: Overexpression of netrin-1 prevented diabetes-induced VED in aorta from diabetic mice and netrin-1 treatment attenuated HG-induced impairment of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) function in BAECs.METHODS AND RESULTS: Experiments were performed in Tg3 and littermate control (WT) mice rendered diabetic with streptozotocin (STZ) and in BAECs treated with HG (25 mmol/L). Levels of netrin-1 and its receptor DCC, markers of inflammation and apoptosis and vascular function were assessed in aortas from diabetic and non-diabetic Tg3 and WT mice. Vascular netrin-1 in WT mice was reduced under diabetic conditions. Aortas from non-diabetic Tg3 and WT mice showed similar maximum endothelium-dependent relaxation (MEDR) (83% and 87%, respectively). MEDR was markedly impaired in aorta from diabetic WT mice (51%). This effect was significantly blunted in Tg3 diabetic aortas (70%). Improved vascular relaxation in Tg3 diabetic mice was associated with increased levels of phospho-ERK1/2 and reduced levels of oxidant stress, NF\xce\xbaB, COX-2, p16INK4A, cleaved caspase-3 and p16 and p53 mRNA. Netrin-1 treatment prevented the HG-induced decrease in NO production and elevation of oxidative stress and apoptosis in BAECs.CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes decreases aortic levels of netrin-1. However, overexpression of netrin-1 attenuates diabetes-induced VED and limits the reduction of NO levels, while increasing expression of p-ERK1/2, and suppressing oxidative stress and inflammatory and apoptotic processes. Enhancement of netrin-1 function may be a useful therapeutic means for preventing vascular dysfunction in diabetes. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blood Glucose#Cattle#Cells, Cultured#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Endothelium, Vascular#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Nerve Growth Factors#Netrin-1#Nitric Oxide#Oxidative Stress#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b'In the context of limited marine resources, the exponential growth of aquaculture requires the substitution of fish oil and fishmeal, the traditional components of fish feeds by terrestrial plant ingredients. High levels of such substitution are known to negatively impact fish performance such as growth and survival in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) as in other salmonids. In this respect, genetic selection is a key enabler for improving those performances and hence for the further sustainable development of aquaculture. We selected a rainbow trout line over three generations for its ability to survive and grow on a 100% plant-based diet devoid of both fish oil and fishmeal (V diet) from the very first meal. In the present study, we compared the control line and the selected line after 3 generations of selection, both fed either the V diet or a marine resources-based diet (M diet). The objective of the study was to assess the efficiency of selection and the consequences on various correlated nutritional traits: feed intake, feed efficiency, digestibility, composition of whole fish, nutrient retention and fatty acid (FA) profile. We demonstrated that the genetic variability present in our rainbow trout population can be selected to improve survival and growth. The major result of the study is that after only three generations of selection, selected fish fed the V diet grew at the same rate as the control line fed the M diet, whilst the relative reduction of body weight was 36.8% before the selection. This enhanced performance on the V diet seems to be mostly linked to a higher feed intake for the selected fish. labels: #Animal Feed#Animals#Fish Oils#Fishes#Oncorhynchus mykiss'
b"Strategies to encourage exercise have led to research on cycle ergometer 'exergaming', as a means of enhancing exercise enjoyment. This research has typically prescribed the exercise intensity and used one exercise mode. The aim of this study was to compare self-selected exercise intensity on a cycle ergometer with and without exergaming modes activated. A total of 20 participants aged between 18-40 years (M = 24.2 \xc2\xb1 5.9) completed a sub-maximal exercise test. Participants returned two days later to complete one 45 minute session of self-selected exercise with 15 minutes in each of 'control' (standard ergometer), 'track', and 'game' modes, with order randomized. Heart rate, work rate, perceived exertion, and affective valence were recorded during exercise. Dissociation and enjoyment were recorded in the rest interval between each mode. Participants exercised above ventilatory threshold (VT) in all three modes (track, M = 9.5 \xc2\xb1 12%; game, M = 6.2 \xc2\xb1 12%; and control, M = 4.4 \xc2\xb1 14% above VT) and at higher work rates (P<0.05) exergaming (track, M = 94.5 \xc2\xb1 27.9; game, M = 96.2 \xc2\xb1 32.8 watts) than control (M = 86.6 \xc2\xb1 26.5 watts). Despite exercising at a higher intensity, participants perceived exercise during the exergaming modes to be most pleasant (P<0.01), with greater enjoyment (P<0.01) and dissociation (P<0.01) in the game than track mode, and both modes higher on these variables than the control mode. Findings support the use of exergaming as a strategy to encourage individuals to exercise, with participants choosing to work harder physiologically, but reporting more positive psychological responses during and following the exercise. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Exercise#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Male#Motivation#Physical Exertion#Respiration#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between a history of periodontitis (PD) and incident systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).METHODS: We used 2003-2012 claims data from the Taiwanese National Health Insurance Database to identify 7,204 incident SLE patients during 2007-2012 as the study group, along with randomly selecting 72,040 non-SLE patients matched (1:10) for age, gender, and first diagnosis date (index date) as the control group. The correlation between PD and SLE risk was estimated using conditional logistic regression analysis, after making adjustments for confounders (including a history of diabetes and number of non-PD related dental visits before the index date). To evaluate the effects of PD severity and the lag time which occurred since the last PD visit on SLE development, odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for subgroups of patients with PD according to their number of visits, cumulative cost and also the time gaps between their last PD-related visit and the index date.RESULTS: A statistically significant association between a history of PD and newly diagnosed SLE was observed (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.14-1.28; p-value,<0.001). The association was both dose- and time-dependent and was found to be strongest when the interval between the last PD-related visit and the index date was less than three months (OR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.61-2.09; p-value,<0.001). The association between PD exposure and SLE risk was consistently significant among subgroups stratified based on age, gender, or DM status.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this nationwide, population-based, case-control study suggest that there is a significant association between a history of PD and incident SLE in Taiwan. This weak association is limited to lack of information on individual smoking status in the database. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Confounding Factors (Epidemiology)#Female#Humans#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Middle Aged#Periodontitis#Risk Factors#Taiwan'
b"Leadership positions are still stereotyped as masculine, especially in male-dominated fields (e.g., engineering). So how do gender stereotypes affect the evaluation of leaders and team cohesiveness in the process of team development? In our study participants worked in 45 small teams (4-5 members). Each team was headed by either a female or male leader, so that 45 leaders (33% women) supervised 258 team members (39% women). Over a period of nine months, the teams developed specific engineering projects as part of their professional undergraduate training. We examined leaders' self-evaluation, their evaluation by team members, and team cohesiveness at two points of time (month three and month nine, the final month of the collaboration). While we did not find any gender differences in leaders' self-evaluation at the beginning, female leaders evaluated themselves more favorably than men at the end of the projects. Moreover, female leaders were evaluated more favorably than male leaders at the beginning of the project, but the evaluation by team members did not differ at the end of the projects. Finally, we found a tendency for female leaders to build more cohesive teams than male leaders. labels: #Female#Humans#Institutional Management Teams#Leadership#Male#Sex Factors"
b'The effectiveness of the annual influenza vaccine has declined in recent years, especially for the H3N2 component, and is a concern for global public health. A major cause for this lack in effectiveness has been attributed to the egg-based vaccine production process. Substitutions on the hemagglutinin glycoprotein (HA) often arise during virus passaging that change its antigenicity and hence vaccine effectiveness. Here, we characterize the effect of a prevalent substitution, L194P, in egg-passaged H3N2 viruses. X-ray structural analysis reveals that this substitution surprisingly increases the mobility of the 190-helix and neighboring regions in antigenic site B, which forms one side of the receptor binding site (RBS) and is immunodominant in recent human H3N2 viruses. Importantly, the L194P substitution decreases binding and neutralization by an RBS-targeted broadly neutralizing antibody by three orders of magnitude and significantly changes the HA antigenicity as measured by binding of human serum antibodies. The receptor binding mode and specificity are also altered to adapt to avian receptors during egg passaging. Overall, these findings help explain the low effectiveness of the seasonal vaccine against H3N2 viruses, and suggest that alternative approaches should be accelerated for producing influenza vaccines as well as isolating clinical isolates. labels: #Amino Acid Substitution#Antigens, Viral#Hemagglutinin Glycoproteins, Influenza Virus#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H3N2 Subtype#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human'
b"This work aims to study and explain the business cycle correlations of the Japanese production network. We consider the supplier-customer network, which is a directed network representing the trading links between Japanese firms (links from suppliers to customers). The community structure of this network is determined by applying the Infomap algorithm. Each community is defined by its GDP and its associated business cycle. Business cycle correlations between communities are estimated based on copula theory. Then, based on firms' attributes and network topology, these correlations are explained through linear econometric models. The results show strong evidence of business cycle correlations in the Japanese production network. A significant systemic risk is found for high negative or positive shocks. These correlations are explained mainly by the sector and by geographic similarities. Moreover, our results highlight the higher vulnerability of small communities and small firms, which is explained by the disassortative mixing of the production network. labels: #Algorithms#Commerce#Japan#Risk"
b'Our laboratory previously used the SEREX method in U937 cells and identified a novel leukemia-associated gene MLAA-34, a novel splice variant of CAB39L associated with acute monocytic leukemia, that exhibited anti-apoptotic activities in U937 cells. Whether MLAA-34 has an anti-apoptotic role in other tumor cells has not yet been reported. We explored whether MLAA-34 exhibited anti-apoptotic effects in HeLa cervical cancer cells and the possible mechanism of action. We generated a HeLa cell line stably expressing MLAA-34 and found that MLAA-34 overexpression had no effect on the growth, apoptosis and cell cycle of HeLa cells. However, upon treatment with arsenic trioxide (ATO) to induce apoptosis, the cell viability and colony formation ability of ATO-treated MLAA-34 stable HeLa cells were significantly higher than that of ATO-treated controls, and the apoptosis rate and proportion of G2/M cells also decreased. We found that ATO treatment of HeLa cells resulted in significant decreases in the expression of \xce\xb2-catenin mRNA and protein and the downstream target factors c-Myc, cyclin B1, and cyclin D1 in the Wnt signaling pathway. Notably, ATO-treated MLAA-34 stable HeLa cells showed a significant reduction in the ATO-mediated downregulation of these factors. In addition, MLAA-34 overexpression significantly increased the expression of nuclear \xce\xb2-catenin protein in ATO-treated cells compared with HeLa cells treated only with ATO. Thus, here we have found that the Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling pathway is involved in ATO-induced apoptosis in HeLa cells. MLAA-34 reduces ATO-induced apoptosis and G2/M arrest, and the anti-apoptotic effect may be achieved by activating the Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling pathway in HeLa cells. labels: #Antigens, Neoplasm#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Arsenicals#Blotting, Western#HeLa Cells#Humans#Oxides#Signal Transduction#Wnt Proteins#beta Catenin'
b'Neonicotinoid insecticides can cause a variety of adverse sub-lethal effects in bees. In social species such as the honeybee, Apis mellifera, queens are essential for reproduction and colony functioning. Therefore, any negative effect of these agricultural chemicals on the mating success of queens may have serious consequences for the fitness of the entire colony. Queens were exposed to the common neonicotinoid pesticides thiamethoxam and clothianidin during their developmental stage. After mating, their spermathecae were dissected to count the number of stored spermatozoa. Furthermore, their worker offspring were genotyped with DNA microsatellites to determine the number of matings and the genotypic composition of the colony. Colonies providing the male mating partners were also inferred. Both neonicotinoid and control queens mated with drones originating from the same drone source colonies, and stored similar number of spermatozoa. However, queens reared in colonies exposed to both neonicotinoids experienced fewer matings. This resulted in a reduction of the genetic diversity in their colonies (i.e. higher intracolonial relatedness). As decreased genetic diversity among worker bees is known to negatively affect colony vitality, neonicotinoids may have a cryptic effect on colony health by reducing the mating frequency of queens. labels: #Animals#Bees#Female#Genetic Variation#Male#Nicotine#Pesticides#Sexual Behavior, Animal'
b'Mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) constitutes a collection of relatively rare pediatric malignancies. In order to utilize administrative data to perform large-scale epidemiologic studies within this population, a two-step process was used to assemble a 12-year cohort of B-NHL patients treated between 2004 and 2015 within the Pediatric Health Information System database. Patients were identified by ICD-9 codes, and their chemotherapy data were then manually reviewed against standard B-NHL treatment regimens. A total of 1,409 patients were eligible for cohort inclusion. This process was validated at a single center, utilizing both an institutional tumor registry and medical record review as the gold standards. The validation demonstrated appropriate sensitivity (91.5%) and positive predictive value (95.1%) to allow for the future use of this cohort for epidemiologic and comparative effectiveness research. labels: #Child#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Humans#Lymphoma, B-Cell'
b'The present study investigated the effect of iRoot Fast Set root repair material (iRoot FS) on the proliferation, migration and differentiation of human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs). The hDPSCs were treated with eluates of iRoot FS at concentrations of 0.2 and 2 mg/mL, referred to as FS0.2 and FS2, respectively, and Biodentine (BD; Septodont, Saint Maur des Fauss\xc3\xa9s, France) eluates at the corresponding concentrations as positive controls. A CCK8 assay was performed to determine cell proliferation. Wound healing and transwell assays were conducted to examine cell migration. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated based on alkaline phosphatase activity, Alizarin Red S staining and quantitative real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to analyze the mRNA expression of differentiation gene markers. Cell proliferation was higher in the FS and BD groups than in the blank controls at 3 and 7 days. Moreover, FS0.2 enhanced cell migration and significantly promoted the osteogenic differentiation of hDPSCs. These findings suggested that iRoot FS is a bioactive material that promotes the proliferation, migration and osteogenic differentiation of hDPSCs. labels: #Cell Differentiation#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Dental Pulp#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Osteogenesis#Stem Cells'
b'Knowing the correct location of a specific object learned from a (topographic) map is fundamental for orientation and navigation tasks. Spatial reference systems, such as coordinates or cardinal directions, are helpful tools for any geometric localization of positions that aims to be as exact as possible. Considering modern visualization techniques of multimedia cartography, map elements transferred through the auditory channel can be added easily. Audiovisual approaches have been discussed in the cartographic community for many years. However, the effectiveness of audiovisual map elements for map use has hardly been explored so far. Within an interdisciplinary (cartography-cognitive psychology) research project, it is examined whether map users remember object-locations better if they do not just read the corresponding place names, but also listen to them as voice recordings. This approach is based on the idea that learning object-identities influences learning object-locations, which is crucial for map-reading tasks. The results of an empirical study show that the additional auditory communication of object names not only improves memory for the names (object-identities), but also for the spatial accuracy of their corresponding object-locations. The audiovisual communication of semantic attribute information of a spatial object seems to improve the binding of object-identity and object-location, which enhances the spatial accuracy of object-location memory. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Maps as Topic#Memory'
b'Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax, secretes lethal toxin that down-regulates immune functions. Translocation of B. anthracis across mucosal epithelia is key for its dissemination and pathogenesis. Group 3 innate lymphocytes (ILC3s) are important in mucosal barrier maintenance due to their expression of the cytokine IL-22, a critical regulator of tissue responses and repair during homeostasis and inflammation. We found that B. anthracis lethal toxin perturbed ILC3 function in vitro and in vivo, revealing an unknown IL-23-mediated MAPK signaling pathway. Lethal toxin had no effects on the canonical STAT3-mediated IL-23 signaling pathway. Rather lethal toxin triggered the loss of several MAP2K kinases, which correlated with reduced activation of downstream ERK1/2 and p38, respectively. Inhibition studies showed the importance of MAPK signaling in IL-23-mediated production of IL-22. Our finding that MAPK signaling is required for optimal IL-22 production in ILC3s may lead to new approaches for targeting IL-22 biology. labels: #Animals#Anthrax#Antigens, Bacterial#Bacillus anthracis#Bacterial Toxins#Humans#Interleukin-23#Interleukins#Lymphocytes#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Mice#Virulence'
b'The intricate interactions between viruses and hosts include exploitation of host cells for viral replication by using many cellular resources, metabolites and energy. Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV), similar to other (+)RNA viruses, induces major changes in infected cells that lead to the formation of large replication compartments consisting of aggregated peroxisomal and ER membranes. Yet, it is not known how TBSV obtains the energy to fuel these energy-consuming processes. In the current work, the authors discovered that TBSV co-opts the glycolytic ATP-generating Pgk1 phosphoglycerate kinase to facilitate the assembly of new viral replicase complexes. The recruitment of Pgk1 into the viral replication compartment is through direct interaction with the viral replication proteins. Altogether, we provide evidence that the ATP generated locally within the replication compartment by the co-opted Pgk1 is used to fuel the ATP-requirement of the co-opted heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) chaperone, which is essential for the assembly of new viral replicase complexes and the activation of functional viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. The advantage of direct recruitment of Pgk1 into the virus replication compartment could be that the virus replicase assembly does not need to intensively compete with cellular processes for access to ATP. In addition, local production of ATP within the replication compartment could greatly facilitate the efficiency of Hsp70-driven replicase assembly by providing high ATP concentration within the replication compartment. labels: #Host-Pathogen Interactions#Phosphoglycerate Kinase#RNA Replicase#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Tobacco#Tombusvirus#Virus Assembly'
b'We studied the interaction between GroES and a single-ring mutant (SR1) of GroEL by the NMR titration of 15N-labeled GroES with SR1 at three different temperatures (20, 25 and 30\xc2\xb0C) in the presence of 3 mM ADP in 100 mM KCl and 10 mM MgCl2 at pH 7.5. We used SR1 instead of wild-type double-ring GroEL to precisely control the stoichiometry of the GroES binding to be 1:1 ([SR1]:[GroES]). Native heptameric GroES was very flexible, showing well resolved cross peaks of the residues in a mobile loop segment (residue 17-34) and at the top of a roof hairpin (Asn51) in the heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectra. The binding of SR1 to GroES caused the cross peaks to disappear simultaneously, and hence it occurred in a single-step cooperative manner with significant immobilization of the whole GroES structure. The binding was thus entropic with a positive entropy change (219 J/mol/K) and a positive enthalpy change (35 kJ/mol), and the binding constant was estimated at 1.9\xc3\x97105 M-1 at 25\xc2\xb0C. The NMR titration in 3 mM ATP also indicated that the binding constant between GroES and SR1 increased more than tenfold as compared with the binding constant in 3 mM ADP. These results will be discussed in relation to the structure and mechanisms of the chaperonin GroEL/GroES complex. labels: #Chaperonins#Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy#Protein Conformation#Thermodynamics'
b'In this study, we used 454-pyrosequencing to report the highly diverse diazotroph communities in the Kuroshio and its adjacent waters along a transect across the Tokara Strait, Japan. Terrestrial input from the islands resulted in a highly heterogeneous diazotroph community within a relatively small geographic region, which was presumably caused by the remarkably different responses of UCYN-A2, UCYN-C and Trichodesmium to the steep environmental gradient. On the other hand, most major cyanobacterial OTUs found in this study were also detected in an unpublished dataset from the upstream Kuroshio, which suggests transportation of diazotrophs by the Kuroshio in large geographic scale. A significant amount of UCYN-C was found in the Kuroshio and offshore stations, suggesting the importance of this potentially overlooked group in the western North Pacific Ocean (WNPO). Moreover, a novel sublineage of UCYN-B was defined, which was predominant in an oligotrophic water sample; and it was also found to be widely distributed in oceanic waters. In addition, the apparent increase in relative abundance of UCYN-A2 from offshore to near-shore water provides evidence for the earlier and under-debating view that UCYN-A2 prefers coastal conditions. Our report provides new knowledge for understanding the phylogeny and ecology of unicellular cyanobacterial diazotrophs in WNPO. labels: #Cyanobacteria#Japan#Phylogeny#Water Microbiology'
b'We have previously engineered new RNase P-based ribozyme variants with improved in vitro catalytic activity. In this study, we employed a novel engineered variant to target a shared mRNA region of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) immediate early proteins 1 (IE1) and 2 (IE2), which are essential for the expression of viral early and late genes as well as viral growth. Ribozyme F-R228-IE represents a novel variant that possesses three unique base substitution point mutations at the catalytic domain of RNase P catalytic RNA. Compared to F-M1-IE that is the ribozyme derived from the wild type RNase P catalytic RNA sequence, the functional variant F-R228-IE cleaved the target mRNA sequence in vitro at least 100 times more efficiently. In cultured cells, expression of F-R228-IE resulted in IE1/IE2 expression reduction by 98-99% and in HCMV production reduction by 50,000 folds. In contrast, expression of F-M1-IE resulted in IE1/IE2 expression reduction by less than 80% and in viral production reduction by 200 folds. Studies of the ribozyme-mediated antiviral effects in cultured cells suggest that overall viral early and late gene expression and viral growth were inhibited due to the ribozyme-mediated reduction of HCMV IE1 and IE2 expression. Our results provide direct evidence that engineered RNase P ribozymes, such as F-R228-IE, can serve as a novel class of inhibitors for the treatment and prevention of HCMV infection. Moreover, these results suggest that F-R228-IE, with novel and unique mutations at the catalytic domain to enhance ribozyme activity, can be a candidate for the construction of effective agents for anti-HCMV therapy. labels: #Cytomegalovirus#Genes, Immediate-Early#Humans#RNA, Catalytic#Ribonuclease P'
b'BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetic patients and non-diabetic patients were referred for evaluation for chronic exertional compartment syndrome (CECS) based on clinical examination and complaints of activity-related leg pain in the region of the tibialis anterior muscle. Previous studies using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) showed greater deoxygenation during exercise for CECS patients versus healthy controls; however, this comparison has not been done for diabetic CECS patients.METHODS: We used NIRS to test for differences in oxygenation kinetics for Type 1 diabetic patients diagnosed with (CECS-diabetics, n = 9) versus diabetic patients without (CON-diabetics, n = 10) leg anterior chronic exertional compartment syndrome. Comparisons were also made between non-diabetic CECS patients (n = 11) and healthy controls (CON, n = 10). The experimental protocol consisted of thigh arterial cuff occlusion (AO, 1-minute duration), and treadmill running to reproduce symptoms. NIRS variables generated were resting StO2%, and oxygen recovery following AO. Also, during and following treadmill running the magnitude of deoxygenation and oxygen recovery, respectively, were determined.RESULTS: There was no difference in resting StO2% between CECS-diabetics (78.2\xc2\xb112.6%) vs. CON-diabetics (69.1\xc2\xb120.8%), or between CECS (69.3\xc2\xb116.2) vs. CON (75.9\xc2\xb111.2%). However, oxygen recovery following AO was significantly slower for CECS (1.8\xc2\xb10.8%/sec) vs. CON (3.8\xc2\xb11.7%/sec) (P = 0.002); these data were not different between the diabetic groups. StO2% during exercise was lower (greater deoxygenation) for CECS-diabetics (6.3\xc2\xb18.6%) vs. CON-diabetics (40.4\xc2\xb122.0%), and for CECS (11.3\xc2\xb116.8%) vs. CON (34.1\xc2\xb121.2%) (P<0.05 for both). The rate of oxygen recovery post exercise was faster for CECS-diabetics (3.5\xc2\xb12.6%/sec) vs. CON-diabetics (1.4\xc2\xb10.8%/sec) (P = 0.04), and there was a tendency of difference for CECS (3.1\xc2\xb11.4%/sec) vs. CON (1.9\xc2\xb11.3%/sec) (P = 0.05).CONCLUSION: The greater deoxygenation during treadmill running for the CECS-diabetics group (vs. CON-diabetics) is in line with previous studies (and with the present study) that compared non-diabetic CECS patients with healthy controls. Our findings could suggest that NIRS may be useful as a diagnostic tool for assessing Type 1 diabetic patients suspected of CECS. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Chronic Disease#Compartment Syndromes#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Humans#Muscle, Skeletal#Oxygen#Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared'
b'Composting is viewed as one of the primary methods to treat organic wastes. Co-composting may improve the efficiency of this treatment by establishing the most suitable conditions for decomposers than those present in the individual wastes. Given that bacteria and fungi are the driving agents of composting, information about the composition of their communities and dynamics during composting may improve reproducibility, performance and quality of the final compost as well as help to evaluate the potential human health risk and the choice of the most appropriate application procedure. In this study, the co-composting of mixtures containing two similar components (organic fraction of municipal solid waste and sawdust polluted by oil) and one discriminate component (sewage sludges of different origin) were investigated. Bacterial and fungal community successions in the two mixtures were analyzed during the composting process by determining the change in their structural dynamics using qPCR and 454 pyrosequencing methods in a lab experiment for a period of 270 days. During the initial composting stage, the number of 16S bacterial copies was (3.0\xc2\xb10.2) x 106 and (0.4\xc2\xb10.0) x 107 g-1, and the Rhodospiralles and Lactobacialles orders dominated. Fungal communities had (2.9\xc2\xb10.0) x105 and (6.1\xc2\xb10.2) x105 ITS copies g-1, and the Saccharomycetales order dominated. At the end of the thermophilic stage on the 30th day of composting, bacterial and fungal communities underwent significant changes: dominants changed and their relative abundance decreased. Typical compost residents included Flavobacteriales, Chitinophagaceae and Bacterioidetes for bacteria and Microascaceae, Dothideomycetes, Eurotiomycetes, Sordariomycetes, and Agaricomycetes for fungi. During the later composting stages, the dominating taxa of both bacterial and fungal communities remained, while their relative abundance decreased. In accordance with the change in the dominating OTUs, it was concluded that the dynamics of the bacterial and fungal communities were not similar. Analysis by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) revealed that the bacterial communities of the two composts became progressively more similar; a similar trend was followed by the fungal community. labels: #Bacterial Physiological Phenomena#Fungi#Soil'
b'Alcelaphine herpesvirus 1 (AlHV-1) is a \xce\xb3-herpesvirus (\xce\xb3-HV) belonging to the macavirus genus that persistently infects its natural host, the wildebeest, without inducing any clinical sign. However, cross-transmission to other ruminant species causes a deadly lymphoproliferative disease named malignant catarrhal fever (MCF). AlHV-1 ORF73 encodes the latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA)-homolog protein (aLANA). Recently, aLANA has been shown to be essential for viral persistence in vivo and induction of MCF, suggesting that aLANA shares key properties of other \xce\xb3-HV genome maintenance proteins. Here we have investigated the evasion of the immune response by aLANA. We found that a glycin/glutamate (GE)-rich repeat domain was sufficient to inhibit in cis the presentation of an epitope linked to aLANA. Although antigen presentation in absence of GE was dependent upon proteasomal degradation of aLANA, a lack of GE did not affect protein turnover. However, protein self-synthesis de novo was downregulated by aLANA GE, a mechanism directly associated with reduced antigen presentation in vitro. Importantly, codon-modification of aLANA GE resulted in increased antigen presentation in vitro and enhanced induction of antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses in vivo, indicating that mRNA constraints in GE rather than peptidic sequence are responsible for cis-limitation of antigen presentation. Nonetheless, GE-mediated limitation of antigen presentation in cis of aLANA was dispensable during MCF as rabbits developed the disease after virus infection irrespective of the expression of full-length or GE-deficient aLANA. Altogether, we provide evidence that inhibition in cis of protein synthesis through GE is likely involved in long-term immune evasion of AlHV-1 latent persistence in the wildebeest natural host, but dispensable in MCF pathogenesis. labels: #Animals#Antigen Presentation#Cattle#Gammaherpesvirinae#Glutamic Acid#Glycine#Immune Evasion#Malignant Catarrh#Viral Proteins#Virus Latency'
b'Non-fasting hypertriacylglycerolaemia is a risk factor for CVD and the amount of fat in a meal seems to be the main factor influencing postprandial lipaemia. Although several studies suggest that Ca can increase faecal fat excretion, it is not known whether Ca can decrease postprandial TAG. This study aimed to evaluate the influence of dietary Ca (DC) and supplemental Ca (SC) on lipaemia, glucose metabolism, C-reactive protein (CRP) and adiponectin during postprandial period in obese women challenged with a high-fat meal. In this cross-over controlled trial, sixteen obese women aged 20-50 years were randomly assigned to receive three test meals (approximately 2900 kJ; 48 % fat): high DC (547 mg DC), high SC (HSCM; 500 mg SC-calcium carbonate) and low Ca (42 mg DC). Blood samples were collected in the fasting period and at minutes 120 and 240 after meals to evaluate total cholesterol and fractions, TAG, glucose, insulin, high-sensitivity CRP and adiponectin. Serum levels of TAG and insulin increased significantly after all test meals. Only after HSCM total cholesterol did not present a significant increase and LDL-cholesterol had a significant decrease. Postprandial glucose, HDL-cholesterol, CRP and adiponectin did not present significant changes after the three test meals. The comparative analysis of the effects of the three test meals on serum lipids, glucose, insulin, CRP and adiponectin revealed no significant meal-by-time interaction. These results suggest that in obese women challenged with a high-fat meal DC and SC do not interfere with postprandial lipaemia, glucose metabolism, CRP and adiponectin. labels: #Adiponectin#Adult#Blood Glucose#C-Reactive Protein#Calcium, Dietary#Cholesterol, HDL#Cholesterol, LDL#Cross-Over Studies#Diet#Diet, High-Fat#Dietary Carbohydrates#Dietary Fats#Dietary Proteins#Dietary Supplements#Fasting#Female#Humans#Hyperlipidemias#Insulin#Meals#Middle Aged#Nutrition Assessment#Obesity#Postprandial Period#Single-Blind Method#Triglycerides#Young Adult'
b"Neurodegenerative diseases pose an extraordinary threat to the world's aging population, yet no disease-modifying therapies are available. Although genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified hundreds of risk loci for neurodegeneration, the mechanisms by which these loci influence disease risk are largely unknown. Here, we investigated the association between common genetic variants at the 7p21 locus and risk of the neurodegenerative disease frontotemporal lobar degeneration. We showed that variants associated with disease risk correlate with increased expression of the 7p21 gene TMEM106B and no other genes; co-localization analyses implicated a common causal variant underlying both association with disease and association with TMEM106B expression in lymphoblastoid cell lines and human brain. Furthermore, increases in the amount of TMEM106B resulted in increases in abnormal lysosomal phenotypes and cell toxicity in both immortalized cell lines and neurons. We then combined fine-mapping, bioinformatics, and bench-based approaches to functionally characterize all candidate causal variants at this locus. This approach identified a noncoding variant, rs1990620, that differentially recruits CTCF in lymphoblastoid cell lines and human brain to influence CTCF-mediated long-range chromatin-looping interactions between multiple cis-regulatory elements, including the TMEM106B promoter. Our findings thus provide an in-depth analysis of the 7p21 locus linked by GWASs to frontotemporal lobar degeneration, nominating a causal variant and causal mechanism for allele-specific expression and disease association at this locus. Finally, we show that genetic variants associated with risk of neurodegenerative diseases beyond frontotemporal lobar degeneration are enriched in CTCF-binding sites found in brain-relevant tissues, implicating CTCF-mediated gene regulation in risk of neurodegeneration more generally. labels: #Alleles#Brain#CCCTC-Binding Factor#Cell Line, Tumor#Chromatin#Dementia#Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Regulation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genotype#HeLa Cells#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neurons#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Repressor Proteins#Risk"
b'The cells of the innate immune system, in addition to their capacity to elicit immunity, play a substantial role in immune tolerance induction. Our group has recently shown that a distinct subset of MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidsuppressive macrophages is increased in the lung by intravenous (IV) administration of mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSC) and induces immune tolerance. Herein, we demonstrate that circulating CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes are precursors to MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages in the lung and required for MSC-induced tolerance in a mouse model of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU). Analysis revealed that IV MSC induced an increase in IL-10-expressing MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages in the lung with a concomitant decrease in CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes. Selective depletion of circulating CD11bhiLy6Chicells abrogated the effects of MSC in the induction of IL-10hiMHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages and immune tolerance in EAU mice. Similarly, an increase in CD4+CD25+Foxp3+Tregs by MSCs was also reversed by CD11bhiLy6Chicell depletion. These results suggest that CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes are critical for MSC-induced immune tolerance. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Ly#Autoimmune Diseases#Disease Models, Animal#Immune Tolerance#Immunity, Innate#Lung#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Monocytes#Stem Cell Niche#Uveitis'
b'As a highly conserved mechanism, autophagy is responsible for the transport of cytoplasmic constituents in the vacuoles or lysosomes. Moreover, autophagy is essential for plant development and various stress responses. In this study, 34 MeATGs were systematically identified in cassava, and their transcripts were commonly regulated by Xanthomonas axonopodis pv manihotis (Xam). Through transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana, the subcellular locations of 4 MeATG8s were revealed. Notably, MeWRKY20 was identified as physical interacting protein of MeATG8a/8f/8h and upstream transcriptional activator of MeATG8a. Through virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) in cassava, we found that MeATG8-silenced and MeWRKY20-silenced plants resulted in disease sensitive, with less callose depositions and lower autophagic activity. This study may facilitate our understanding of the upstream MeWRKY20 and underlying target as well as interacting proteins of MeATG8s in immune response. Taken together, MeWRKY20 and MeATG8a/8f/8h are essential for disease resistance against bacterial blight by forming various transcriptional modules and interacting complex in cassava. labels: #Autophagy#Autophagy-Related Protein 8 Family#Genes, Plant#Manihot#Plant Diseases#Plant Proteins#Plants, Genetically Modified#Tobacco#Trans-Activators#Xanthomonas axonopodis'
b"Brain magnetic resonance imaging is an important tool in the diagnosis and monitoring of multiple sclerosis patients. However, magnetic resonance imaging alone provides limited information for predicting an individual patient's disability progression. In part, this is because magnetic resonance imaging lacks sensitivity and specificity for detecting chronic diffuse and multi-focal inflammation mediated by activated microglia/macrophages. The aim of this study was to test for an association between 18 kDa translocator protein brain positron emission tomography signal, which arises largely from microglial activation, and measures of subsequent disease progression in multiple sclerosis patients. Twenty-one patients with multiple sclerosis (seven with secondary progressive disease and 14 with a relapsing remitting disease course) underwent T1- and T2-weighted and magnetization transfer magnetic resonance imaging at baseline and after 1 year. Positron emission tomography scanning with the translocator protein radioligand 11C-PBR28 was performed at baseline. Brain tissue and lesion volumes were segmented from the T1- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and relative 11C-PBR28 uptake in the normal-appearing white matter was estimated as a distribution volume ratio with respect to a caudate pseudo-reference region. Normal-appearing white matter distribution volume ratio at baseline was correlated with enlarging T2-hyperintense lesion volumes over the subsequent year (\xcf\x81 = 0.59, P = 0.01). A post hoc analysis showed that this association reflected behaviour in the subgroup of relapsing remitting patients (\xcf\x81 = 0.74, P = 0.008). By contrast, in the subgroup of secondary progressive patients, microglial activation at baseline was correlated with later progression of brain atrophy (\xcf\x81 = 0.86, P = 0.04). A regression model including the baseline normal-appearing white matter distribution volume ratio, T2 lesion volume and normal-appearing white matter magnetization transfer ratio for all of the patients combined explained over 90% of the variance in enlarging lesion volume over the subsequent 1 year. Glial activation in white matter assessed by translocator protein PET significantly improves predictions of white matter lesion enlargement in relapsing remitting patients and is associated with greater brain atrophy in secondary progressive disease over a period of short term follow-up. labels: #Acetamides#Adult#Atrophy#Brain#Carbon Radioisotopes#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Microglia#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Chronic Progressive#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting#Organ Size#Positron-Emission Tomography#Pyridines#Receptors, GABA#White Matter#Young Adult"
b"Network-sensitive neuroimaging methods have been used to characterize large-scale brain network degeneration in Alzheimer's disease and its prodrome. However, few studies have investigated the combined effect of Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease on brain network degeneration. Our study sought to examine the intrinsic functional connectivity and structural covariance network changes in 235 prodromal and clinical Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. We focused particularly on two higher-order cognitive networks-the default mode network and the executive control network. We found divergent functional connectivity and structural covariance patterns in Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. Alzheimer's disease patients without cerebrovascular disease, but not Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease, showed reductions in posterior default mode network functional connectivity. By comparison, while both groups exhibited parietal reductions in executive control network functional connectivity, only Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease showed increases in frontal executive control network connectivity. Importantly, these distinct executive control network changes were recapitulated in prodromal Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. Across Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease, higher default mode network functional connectivity z-scores correlated with greater hippocampal volumes while higher executive control network functional connectivity z-scores correlated with greater white matter changes. In parallel, only Alzheimer's disease patients without cerebrovascular disease showed increased default mode network structural covariance, while only Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease showed increased executive control network structural covariance compared to controls. Our findings demonstrate the differential neural network structural and functional changes in Alzheimer's disease with and without cerebrovascular disease, suggesting that the underlying pathology of Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease might differ from those without cerebrovascular disease and reflect a combination of more severe cerebrovascular disease and less severe Alzheimer's disease network degeneration phenotype. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alzheimer Disease#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cerebrovascular Disorders#Cognitive Dysfunction#Executive Function#Female#Functional Neuroimaging#Hippocampus#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Neural Pathways#Organ Size"
b'Humans frequently estimate the size of objects to grasp them. In fact, when performing an action, our perception is focused towards the visual properties of the object that enable us to successfully execute the action. However, the motor system is also able to influence perception, but only a few studies have reported evidence for action-induced visual perception modifications. Here, we aimed to look for a feature-specific perceptual modulation before and after a reaching or a grasping action. Human participants were instructed to either reach for or grasp two-dimensional bars of different size and to perform a size perceptual task before and after the action in two contexts: in one where they knew the subsequent type of movement and in the other where they did not know. We found significant modifications of perceived size of stimuli more pronounced after grasping than after reaching. The mere knowledge of the subsequent action type significantly affected the size perception before the movement execution, with consistent results in both manual and verbal reports. These data represent direct evidence that, in natural conditions without manipulation of visual information, the action type and the action context dynamically modulate size perception, by shaping it according to relevant information required to recognize and interact with objects. labels: #Adult#Female#Form Perception#Hand Strength#Humans#Male#Movement#Psychomotor Performance#Size Perception#Young Adult'
b'A large part of classical visual psychophysics was concerned with the fundamental question of how pattern information is initially encoded in the human visual system. From these studies a relatively standard model of early spatial vision emerged, based on spatial frequency and orientation-specific channels followed by an accelerating nonlinearity and divisive normalization: contrast gain-control. Here we implement such a model in an image-computable way, allowing it to take arbitrary luminance images as input. Testing our implementation on classical psychophysical data, we find that it explains contrast detection data including the ModelFest data, contrast discrimination data, and oblique masking data, using a single set of parameters. Leveraging the advantage of an image-computable model, we test our model against a recent dataset using natural images as masks. We find that the model explains these data reasonably well, too. To explain data obtained at different presentation durations, our model requires different parameters to achieve an acceptable fit. In addition, we show that contrast gain-control with the fitted parameters results in a very sparse encoding of luminance information, in line with notions from efficient coding. Translating the standard early spatial vision model to be image-computable resulted in two further insights: First, the nonlinear processing requires a denser sampling of spatial frequency and orientation than optimal coding suggests. Second, the normalization needs to be fairly local in space to fit the data obtained with natural image masks. Finally, our image-computable model can serve as tool in future quantitative analyses: It allows optimized stimuli to be used to test the model and variants of it, with potential applications as an image-quality metric. In addition, it may serve as a building block for models of higher level processing. labels: #Computer Simulation#Contrast Sensitivity#Humans#Orientation#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Psychophysics#Space Perception#Spatial Navigation'
b'Neurological dysfunction following epileptic seizures is a well-recognized phenomenon. Several potential mechanisms have been suggested to explain postictal dysfunction, with alteration in cerebral blood flow being one possibility. These vascular disturbances may be long lasting and localized to brain areas involved in seizure generation and propagation, as supported by both animal and human studies. Therefore, measuring perfusion changes in the postictal period may help localize the seizure onset zone. Arterial spin labelling is a non-invasive, rapid and reproducible magnetic resonance imaging technique that measures cerebral perfusion. To this end, we measured postictal perfusion in patients with drug resistant focal epilepsy who were admitted to our seizure-monitoring unit for presurgical evaluation. Twenty-one patients were prospectively recruited and underwent arterial spin labelling scanning within 90 min of a habitual seizure. Patients also underwent a similar scan in the interictal period, after they were seizure-free for at least 24 h. The acquired scans were subtracted to identify the areas of significant postictal hypoperfusion. The location of the maximal hypoperfusion was compared to the presumed seizure onset zone to assess for concordance. Also, the localizing value of this technique was compared to other structural and functional imaging modalities. Postictal perfusion reductions of>15 units (ml/100 g/l) were seen in 15/21 patients (71.4%). In 12/15 (80%) of these patients, the location of the hypoperfusion was partially or fully concordant with the location of the presumed seizure onset zone. This technique compared favourably to other neuroimaging modalities, being similar or superior to structural magnetic resonance imaging in 52% of cases, ictal single-photon emission computed tomography in 60% of cases and interictal positron emission tomography in 71% of cases. Better arterial spin labelling results were obtained in patients in whom the seizure onset zone was discernible based on non-invasive data. Thus, this technique is a safe, non-invasive and relatively inexpensive tool to detect postictal hypoperfusion that may provide useful data to localize the seizure onset zone. This technique may be incorporated into the battery of conventional investigations for presurgical evaluation of patients with drug resistant focal epilepsy. labels: #Adult#Brain#Brain Mapping#Cerebrovascular Circulation#Drug Resistant Epilepsy#Electroencephalography#Epilepsies, Partial#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Positron-Emission Tomography#Prospective Studies#Seizures#Tomography, Emission-Computed, Single-Photon#Young Adult'
b'Mutations in FUS are causative for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with a dominant mode of inheritance. In trying to model FUS-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in mouse it is clear that FUS is dosage-sensitive and effects arise from overexpression per se in transgenic strains. Novel models are required that maintain physiological levels of FUS expression and that recapitulate the human disease-with progressive loss of motor neurons in heterozygous animals. Here, we describe a new humanized FUS-ALS mouse with a frameshift mutation, which fulfils both criteria: the FUS Delta14 mouse. Heterozygous animals express mutant humanized FUS protein at physiological levels and have adult onset progressive motor neuron loss and denervation of neuromuscular junctions. Additionally, we generated a novel antibody to the unique human frameshift peptide epitope, allowing specific identification of mutant FUS only. Using our new FUSDelta14 ALS mouse-antibody system we show that neurodegeneration occurs in the absence of FUS protein aggregation. FUS mislocalization increases as disease progresses, and mutant FUS accumulates at the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Further, transcriptomic analyses show progressive changes in ribosomal protein levels and mitochondrial function as early disease stages are initiated. Thus, our new physiological mouse model has provided novel insight into the early pathogenesis of FUS-ALS. labels: #Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis#Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Endoplasmic Reticulum, Rough#Frameshift Mutation#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Knock-In Techniques#Heterozygote#Humans#Mice#Mitochondria#Motor Neurons#Neuromuscular Junction#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#RNA-Binding Protein FUS#Ribosomal Proteins'
b'Glioblastoma are highly aggressive brain tumours that are associated with an extremely poor prognosis. Within these tumours exists a subpopulation of highly plastic self-renewing cancer cells that retain the ability to expand ex vivo as tumourspheres, induce tumour growth in mice, and have been implicated in radio- and chemo-resistance. Although their identity and fate are regulated by external cues emanating from endothelial cells, the nature of such signals remains unknown. Here, we used a mass spectrometry proteomic approach to characterize the factors released by brain endothelial cells. We report the identification of the vasoactive peptide apelin as a central regulator for endothelial-mediated maintenance of glioblastoma patient-derived cells with stem-like properties. Genetic and pharmacological targeting of apelin cognate receptor abrogates apelin- and endothelial-mediated expansion of glioblastoma patient-derived cells with stem-like properties in vitro and suppresses tumour growth in vivo. Functionally, selective competitive antagonists of apelin receptor were shown to be safe and effective in reducing tumour expansion and lengthening the survival of intracranially xenografted mice. Therefore, the apelin/apelin receptor signalling nexus may operate as a paracrine signal that sustains tumour cell expansion and progression, suggesting that apelin is a druggable factor in glioblastoma. labels: #Animals#Apelin#Apelin Receptors#Brain Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Endothelial Cells#Glioblastoma#HEK293 Cells#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Mass Spectrometry#Mice#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Proteomics#RNA, Small Interfering#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias, referred to as spinocerebellar ataxias in genetic nomenclature, are a rare group of progressive neurodegenerative disorders characterized by loss of balance and coordination. Despite the identification of numerous disease genes, a substantial number of cases still remain without a genetic diagnosis. Here, we report five novel spinocerebellar ataxia genes, FAT2, PLD3, KIF26B, EP300, and FAT1, identified through a combination of exome sequencing in genetically undiagnosed families and targeted resequencing of exome candidates in a cohort of singletons. We validated almost all genes genetically, assessed damaging effects of the gene variants in cell models and further consolidated a role for several of these genes in the aetiology of spinocerebellar ataxia through network analysis. Our work links spinocerebellar ataxia to alterations in synaptic transmission and transcription regulation, and identifies these as the main shared mechanisms underlying the genetically diverse spinocerebellar ataxia types. labels: #Animals#COS Cells#Cadherins#Cercopithecus aethiops#E1A-Associated p300 Protein#Exome#Female#Gene Regulatory Networks#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Kinesin#Male#Pedigree#Phospholipase D#Plasmids#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Spinocerebellar Ataxias#Transfection'
b'Neuroaxonal pathology is a main determinant of disease progression in multiple sclerosis; however, its underlying pathophysiological mechanisms, including its link to inflammatory demyelination and temporal occurrence in the disease course are still unknown. We used ultra-high field (7 T), ultra-high gradient strength diffusion and T1/T2-weighted myelin-sensitive magnetic resonance imaging to characterize microstructural changes in myelin and neuroaxonal integrity in the cortex and white matter in early stage multiple sclerosis, their distribution in lesional and normal-appearing tissue, and their correlations with neurological disability. Twenty-six early stage multiple sclerosis subjects (disease duration \xe2\x89\xa45 years) and 24 age-matched healthy controls underwent 7 T T2*-weighted imaging for cortical lesion segmentation and 3 T T1/T2-weighted myelin-sensitive imaging and neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging for assessing microstructural myelin, axonal and dendrite integrity in lesional and normal-appearing tissue of the cortex and the white matter. Conventional mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy metrics were also assessed for comparison. Cortical lesions were identified in 92% of early multiple sclerosis subjects and they were characterized by lower intracellular volume fraction (P = 0.015 by paired t-test), lower myelin-sensitive contrast (P = 0.030 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) and higher mean diffusivity (P = 0.022 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) relative to the contralateral normal-appearing cortex. Similar findings were observed in white matter lesions relative to normal-appearing white matter (all P<0.001), accompanied by an increased orientation dispersion (P<0.001 by paired t-test) and lower fractional anisotropy (P<0.001 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) suggestive of less coherent underlying fibre orientation. Additionally, the normal-appearing white matter in multiple sclerosis subjects had diffusely lower intracellular volume fractions than the white matter in controls (P = 0.029 by unpaired t-test). Cortical thickness did not differ significantly between multiple sclerosis subjects and controls. Higher orientation dispersion in the left primary motor-somatosensory cortex was associated with increased Expanded Disability Status Scale scores in surface-based general linear modelling (P<0.05). Microstructural pathology was frequent in early multiple sclerosis, and present mainly focally in cortical lesions, whereas more diffusely in white matter. These results suggest early demyelination with loss of cells and/or cell volumes in cortical and white matter lesions, with additional axonal dispersion in white matter lesions. In the cortex, focal lesion changes might precede diffuse atrophy with cortical thinning. Findings in the normal-appearing white matter reveal early axonal pathology outside inflammatory demyelinating lesions. labels: #Adult#Anisotropy#Axons#Brain#Cerebral Cortex#Cohort Studies#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Myelin Sheath#Prospective Studies#White Matter'
b'Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of supplemental macular carotenoids (including versus not including meso-zeaxanthin) in combination with coantioxidants on visual function in patients with nonadvanced age-related macular degeneration.Methods: In this study, 121 participants were randomly assigned to group 1 (Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 formulation with a low dose [25 mg] of zinc and an addition of 10 mg meso-zeaxanthin; n = 60) or group 2 (Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 formulation with a low dose [25 mg]of zinc; n = 61). Visual function was assessed using best-corrected visual acuity, contrast sensitivity (CS), glare disability, retinal straylight, photostress recovery time, reading performance, and the National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25. Macular pigment was measured using customized heterochromatic flicker photometry.Results: There was a statistically significant improvement in the primary outcome measure (letter CS at 6 cycles per degree [6 cpd]) over time (P = 0.013), and this observed improvement was statistically comparable between interventions (P = 0.881). Statistically significant improvements in several secondary outcome visual function measures (letter CS at 1.2 and 2.4 cpd; mesopic and photopic CS at all spatial frequencies; mesopic glare disability at 1.5, 3, and 6 cpd; photopic glare disability at 1.5, 3, 6, and 12 cpd; photostress recovery time; retinal straylight; mean and maximum reading speed) were also observed over time (P<0.05, for all), and were statistically comparable between interventions (P>0.05, for all). Statistically significant increases in macular pigment at all eccentricities were observed over time (P<0.0005, for all), and the degree of augmentation was statistically comparable between interventions (P>0.05).Conclusions: Antioxidant supplementation in patients with nonadvanced age-related macular degeneration results in significant increases in macular pigment and improvements in CS and other measures of visual function. (Clinical trial, http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN13894787). labels: #Aged#Antioxidants#Ascorbic Acid#Contrast Sensitivity#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Glare#Humans#Lutein#Macular Degeneration#Macular Pigment#Male#Middle Aged#Photometry#Reading#Trace Elements#Visual Acuity#Vitamin E#Zeaxanthins#Zinc'
b'Mitochondrial calcium homeostasis is a tightly controlled process that is required for a variety of cellular functions. The mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex plays a critical role in this process. MICU2 is a major component of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex and its deficiency has been shown to impair mitochondrial calcium [Ca2+]m homeostasis although the exact mechanism remains unclear. We used exome sequencing, positional mapping, and functional characterization of MICU2 deficiency to investigate the role of MICU2 in calcium homeostasis. Using combined autozygome/exome analysis, a homozygous truncating mutation in MICU2 was found to fully segregate with a neurodevelopmental disorder in the form of severe cognitive impairment, spasticity, and white matter involvement in a multiplex consanguineous family. Patient-derived MICU2-deficient cells displayed impaired [Ca2+]m homeostasis, with associated increase in mitochondrial sensitivity to oxidative stress, and abnormal regulation of inner mitochondrial membrane potential. This is the first demonstration of MICU2 deficiency in humans, which we suggest causes a distinct neurodevelopmental phenotype secondary to impaired mitochondrial calcium uniporter-mediated regulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis. labels: #Brain#Calcium#Calcium Channels#Case-Control Studies#Cells, Cultured#Child#Cognitive Dysfunction#Female#Fibroblasts#Homeostasis#Humans#Leukoencephalopathies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Muscle Spasticity#Mutation#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Oxidative Stress#Pedigree#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Siblings'
b'Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome represents a phenotypic spectrum of motor, sensory, and cranial nerve neuropathy, often with ataxia, optic atrophy and respiratory problems leading to ventilator-dependence. Loss-of-function mutations in two riboflavin transporter genes, SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, have recently been linked to Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome. However, the genetic frequency, neuropathology and downstream consequences of riboflavin transporter mutations are unclear. By screening a large cohort of 132 patients with early-onset severe sensory, motor and cranial nerve neuropathy we confirmed the strong genetic link between riboflavin transporter mutations and Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome, identifying 22 pathogenic mutations in SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, 14 of which were novel. Brain and spinal cord neuropathological examination of two cases with SLC52A3 mutations showed classical symmetrical brainstem lesions resembling pathology seen in mitochondrial disease, including severe neuronal loss in the lower cranial nerve nuclei, anterior horns and corresponding nerves, atrophy of the spinothalamic and spinocerebellar tracts and posterior column-medial lemniscus pathways. Mitochondrial dysfunction has previously been implicated in an array of neurodegenerative disorders. Since riboflavin metabolites are critical components of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, we hypothesized that reduced riboflavin transport would result in impaired mitochondrial activity, and confirmed this using in vitro and in vivo models. Electron transport chain complex I and complex II activity were decreased in SLC52A2 patient fibroblasts, while global knockdown of the single Drosophila melanogaster riboflavin transporter homologue revealed reduced levels of riboflavin, downstream metabolites, and electron transport chain complex I activity. This in turn led to abnormal mitochondrial membrane potential, respiratory chain activity and morphology. Riboflavin transporter knockdown in Drosophila also resulted in severely impaired locomotor activity and reduced lifespan, mirroring patient pathology, and these phenotypes could be partially rescued using a novel esterified derivative of riboflavin. Our findings expand the genetic, clinical and neuropathological features of Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome, implicate mitochondrial dysfunction as a downstream consequence of riboflavin transporter gene defects, and validate riboflavin esters as a potential therapeutic strategy. labels: #Adolescent#Animals#Atrophy#Brain#Bulbar Palsy, Progressive#Child#Child, Preschool#Citrate (si)-Synthase#Drosophila melanogaster#Electron Transport Complex I#Electron Transport Complex II#Electron Transport Complex III#Female#Fibroblasts#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Infant#Locomotion#Longevity#Male#Membrane Transport Proteins#Microscopy, Electron#Neural Pathways#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Riboflavin#Spinal Cord#Spinocerebellar Tracts#Spinothalamic Tracts#Young Adult'
b'Prognostic markers of primary progressive multiple sclerosis evolution are needed. We investigated the added value of magnetic resonance imaging measures of brain and cervical cord damage in predicting long-term clinical worsening of primary progressive multiple sclerosis compared to simple clinical assessment. In 54 patients, conventional and diffusion tensor brain scans and cervical cord T1-weighted scans were acquired at baseline and after 15 months. Clinical evaluation was performed after 5 and 15 years in 49 patients. Lesion load, brain and cord atrophy, mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy values from the brain normal-appearing white matter and grey matter were obtained. Using linear regression models, we screened the clinical and imaging variables as independent predictors of 15-year disability change (measured on the expanded disability status scale). At 15 years, 90% of the patients had disability progression. Integrating clinical and imaging variables at 15 months predicted disability changes at 15 years better than clinical factors at 5 years (R2 = 61% versus R2 = 57%). The model predicted long-term disability change with a precision within one point in 38 of 49 patients (77.6%). Integration of clinical and imaging measures allows identification of primary progressive multiple sclerosis patients at risk of long-term disease progression 4 years earlier than when using clinical assessment alone. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anisotropy#Atrophy#Brain#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Disease Progression#Female#Gray Matter#Humans#Linear Models#Longitudinal Studies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Chronic Progressive#Prognosis#Spinal Cord#White Matter'
b'Genetic epilepsies are caused by mutations in a range of different genes, many of them encoding ion channels, receptors or transporters. While the number of detected variants and genes increased dramatically in the recent years, pleiotropic effects have also been recognized, revealing that clinical syndromes with various degrees of severity arise from a single gene, a single mutation, or from different mutations showing similar functional defects. Accordingly, several genes coding for GABAA receptor subunits have been linked to a spectrum of benign to severe epileptic disorders and it was shown that a loss of function presents the major correlated pathomechanism. Here, we identified six variants in GABRA3 encoding the \xce\xb13-subunit of the GABAA receptor. This gene is located on chromosome Xq28 and has not been previously associated with human disease. Five missense variants and one microduplication were detected in four families and two sporadic cases presenting with a range of epileptic seizure types, a varying degree of intellectual disability and developmental delay, sometimes with dysmorphic features or nystagmus. The variants co-segregated mostly but not completely with the phenotype in the families, indicating in some cases incomplete penetrance, involvement of other genes, or presence of phenocopies. Overall, males were more severely affected and there were three asymptomatic female mutation carriers compared to only one male without a clinical phenotype. X-chromosome inactivation studies could not explain the phenotypic variability in females. Three detected missense variants are localized in the extracellular GABA-binding NH2-terminus, one in the M2-M3 linker and one in the M4 transmembrane segment of the \xce\xb13-subunit. Functional studies in Xenopus laevis oocytes revealed a variable but significant reduction of GABA-evoked anion currents for all mutants compared to wild-type receptors. The degree of current reduction correlated partially with the phenotype. The microduplication disrupted GABRA3 expression in fibroblasts of the affected patient. In summary, our results reveal that rare loss-of-function variants in GABRA3 increase the risk for a varying combination of epilepsy, intellectual disability/developmental delay and dysmorphic features, presenting in some pedigrees with an X-linked inheritance pattern. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Brain Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Cleft Palate#Developmental Disabilities#Epilepsy#Facies#Female#Genetic Variation#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Microcephaly#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Nystagmus, Pathologic#Oocytes#Patch-Clamp Techniques#Pedigree#Receptors, GABA-A#Syndrome#Xenopus laevis#Young Adult#gamma-Aminobutyric Acid'
b"Exaggerated basal ganglia beta activity (13-35 Hz) is commonly found in patients with Parkinson's disease and can be suppressed by dopaminergic medication, with the degree of suppression being correlated with the improvement in motor symptoms. Importantly, beta activity is not continuously elevated, but fluctuates to give beta bursts. The percentage number of longer beta bursts in a given interval is positively correlated with clinical impairment in Parkinson's disease patients. Here we determine whether the characteristics of beta bursts are dependent on dopaminergic state. Local field potentials were recorded from the subthalamic nucleus of eight Parkinson's disease patients during temporary lead externalization during surgery for deep brain stimulation. The recordings took place with the patient quietly seated following overnight withdrawal of levodopa and after administration of levodopa. Beta bursts were defined by applying a common amplitude threshold and burst characteristics were compared between the two drug conditions. The amplitude of beta bursts, indicative of the degree of local neural synchronization, progressively increased with burst duration. Treatment with levodopa limited this evolution leading to a relative increase of shorter, lower amplitude bursts. Synchronization, however, was not limited to local neural populations during bursts, but also, when such bursts were cotemporaneous across the hemispheres, was evidenced by bilateral phase synchronization. The probability of beta bursts and the proportion of cotemporaneous bursts were reduced by levodopa. The percentage number of longer beta bursts in a given interval was positively related to motor impairment, while the opposite was true for the percentage number of short duration beta bursts. Importantly, the decrease in burst duration was also correlated with the motor improvement. In conclusion, we demonstrate that long duration beta bursts are associated with an increase in local and interhemispheric synchronization. This may compromise information coding capacity and thereby motor processing. Dopaminergic activity limits this uncontrolled beta synchronization by terminating long duration beta bursts, with positive consequences on network state and motor symptoms. labels: #Aged#Basal Ganglia#Beta Rhythm#Deep Brain Stimulation#Dopamine Agents#Electroencephalography#Electroencephalography Phase Synchronization#Female#Humans#Levodopa#Male#Middle Aged#Parkinson Disease#Prosthesis Implantation#Subthalamic Nucleus"
b'Some sweeteners show a synergistic enhancement of perceived sweetness when they are tasted as binary mixtures. In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Behrens et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) find that a surprising explanation for this classic observation may lie in their reciprocal inhibition of bitter taste receptors. labels: #Cyclamates#Drug Synergism#Saccharin#Sweetening Agents#Taste Perception'
b"In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Telling et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) apply advanced X-ray microscopy techniques to reveal magnetite iron species in plaques from a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. The characterization of abnormal iron chemistry in the disease model highlights the potential for iron to combine with the \xce\xb2-amyloid peptide and accelerate the disease process. labels: #Alzheimer Disease#Iron#Molecular Imaging#Nanotechnology"
b'Streptomyces are the principle source of antibiotics in clinical use, but what the bacteria use these molecules for remains largely a mystery. In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Hoefler et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) demonstrate a direct link between biosynthesis of the polyketide linearmycins and extracellular membrane vesicles. labels: #Biological Products#Streptomyces'
b'In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Diaz et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) report a strategy to achieve temporal, spatial, and stoichiometric control over the protein kinase cAbl in living cells. They achieve this by splitting cAbl into two inactive fragments that form an active kinase upon small molecule addition, potentially providing a general way to probe the wiring of signal transduction networks. labels: #Biocatalysis#Enzyme Activation#HeLa Cells#Humans#Protein Engineering#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-abl#Signal Transduction#src-Family Kinases'
b'Mitochondrial antiviral signaling platform protein (MAVS) acts as a central hub for RIG-I receptor proximal signal propagation. However, key components in the assembly of the MAVS mitochondrial platform that promote RIG-I mitochondrial localization and optimal activation are still largely undefined. Employing pooled RNAi and yeast two-hybrid screenings, we report that the mitochondrial adaptor protein tripartite motif (TRIM)14 provides a docking platform for the assembly of the mitochondrial signaling complex required for maximal activation of RIG-I-mediated signaling, consisting of WHIP and protein phosphatase PPP6C. Following viral infection, the ubiquitin-binding domain in WHIP bridges RIG-I with MAVS by binding to polyUb chains of RIG-I at lysine 164. The ATPase domain in WHIP contributes to stabilization of the RIG-I-dsRNA interaction. Moreover, phosphatase PPP6C is responsible for RIG-I dephosphorylation. Together, our findings define the WHIP-TRIM14-PPP6C mitochondrial signalosome required for RIG-I-mediated innate antiviral immunity. labels: #ATPases Associated with Diverse Cellular Activities#Animals#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Cercopithecus aethiops#DEAD Box Protein 58#DNA-Binding Proteins#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Multiprotein Complexes#Phosphoprotein Phosphatases#Signal Transduction#Vero Cells#Virus Diseases#Viruses'
b'The roles of CDK4 in the cell cycle have been extensively studied, but less is known about the mechanisms underlying the metabolic regulation by CDK4. Here, we report that CDK4 promotes anaerobic glycolysis and represses fatty acid oxidation in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) by targeting the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). We also show that fatty acid oxidation (FAO) is specifically induced by AMPK complexes containing the \xce\xb12 subunit. Moreover, we report that CDK4 represses FAO through direct phosphorylation and inhibition of AMPK\xce\xb12. The expression of non-phosphorylatable AMPK\xce\xb12 mutants, or the use of a CDK4 inhibitor, increased FAO rates in MEFs and myotubes. In addition, Cdk4-/-mice have increased oxidative metabolism and exercise capacity. Inhibition of CDK4 mimicked these alterations in normal mice, but not when skeletal muscle was AMPK deficient. This novel mechanism explains how CDK4 promotes anabolism by blocking catabolic processes (FAO) that are activated by AMPK. labels: #AMP-Activated Protein Kinases#Animals#Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4#Embryo, Mammalian#Fatty Acids#Fibroblasts#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Mutation#Oxidation-Reduction#Physical Conditioning, Animal'
b'The proper location and timing of Dnmt1 activation are essential for DNA methylation maintenance. We demonstrate here that Dnmt1 utilizes two-mono-ubiquitylated histone H3 as a unique ubiquitin mark for its recruitment to and activation at DNA methylation sites. The crystal structure of the replication foci targeting sequence (RFTS) of Dnmt1 in complex with H3-K18Ub/23Ub reveals striking differences to the known ubiquitin-recognition structures. The two ubiquitins are simultaneously bound to the RFTS with a combination of canonical hydrophobic and atypical hydrophilic interactions. The C-lobe of RFTS, together with the K23Ub surface, also recognizes the N-terminal tail of H3. The binding of H3-K18Ub/23Ub results in spatial rearrangement of two lobes in the RFTS, suggesting the opening of its active site. Actually, incubation of Dnmt1 with H3-K18Ub/23Ub increases its catalytic activity in\xc2\xa0vitro. Our results therefore shed light on the essential role of a unique ubiquitin-binding module in DNA methylation maintenance. labels: #Animals#Crystallography, X-Ray#DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferase 1#DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferases#DNA Methylation#Histones#Humans#Protein Binding#Protein Structure, Quaternary#Ubiquitin#Xenopus laevis'
b'To ensure the completion of DNA replication and maintenance of genome integrity, DNA repair factors protect stalled replication forks upon replication stress. Previous studies have identified a critical role for the tumor suppressors BRCA1 and BRCA2 in preventing the degradation of nascent DNA by the MRE11 nuclease after replication stress. Here we show that depletion of SMARCAL1, a SNF2-family DNA translocase that remodels stalled forks, restores replication fork stability and reduces the formation of replication stress-induced DNA breaks and chromosomal aberrations in BRCA1/2-deficient cells. In addition to SMARCAL1, other SNF2-family fork remodelers, including ZRANB3 and HLTF, cause nascent DNA degradation and genomic instability in BRCA1/2-deficient cells upon replication stress. Our observations indicate that nascent DNA degradation in BRCA1/2-deficient cells occurs as a consequence of MRE11-dependent nucleolytic processing of reversed forks generated by fork remodelers. These studies provide mechanistic insights into the processes that cause genome instability in BRCA1/2-deficient cells. labels: #BRCA2 Protein#Cell Line, Tumor#DNA Breaks#DNA Helicases#DNA-Binding Proteins#Genomic Instability#Humans#MRE11 Homologue Protein#Transcription Factors#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'RING and U-box E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate diverse eukaryotic processes and have been implicated in numerous diseases, but targeting these enzymes remains a major challenge. We report the development of three ubiquitin variants (UbVs), each binding selectively to the RING or U-box domain of a distinct E3 ligase: monomeric UBE4B, phosphorylated active CBL, or dimeric XIAP. Structural and biochemical analyses revealed that UbVs specifically inhibited the activity of UBE4B or phosphorylated CBL by blocking the E2\xe2\x88\xbcUb binding site. Surprisingly, the UbV selective for dimeric XIAP formed a dimer to stimulate E3 activity by stabilizing the closed E2\xe2\x88\xbcUb conformation. We further verified the inhibitory and stimulatory functions of UbVs in cells. Our work provides a general strategy to inhibit or activate RING/U-box E3 ligases and provides a resource for the research community to modulate these enzymes. labels: #Drug Discovery#Enzyme Activators#Enzyme Inhibitors#HEK293 Cells#HeLa Cells#Humans#Protein Multimerization#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligase Complexes#X-Linked Inhibitor of Apoptosis Protein'
b'Chromosome conformation capture technologies have revealed important insights into genome folding. Yet, how spatial genome architecture is related to gene expression and cell fate remains unclear. We comprehensively mapped 3D chromatin organization during mouse neural differentiation in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo, generating the highest-resolution Hi-C maps available to date. We found that transcription is correlated with chromatin insulation and long-range interactions, but dCas9-mediated activation is insufficient for creating TAD boundaries de novo. Additionally, we discovered long-range contacts between gene bodies of exon-rich, active genes in all cell types. During neural differentiation, contacts between active TADs become less pronounced while inactive TADs interact more strongly. An extensive Polycomb network in stem cells is disrupted, while\xc2\xa0dynamic interactions between neural transcription factors appear in\xc2\xa0vivo. Finally, cell type-specific enhancer-promoter contacts are established concomitant to gene expression. This work shows that multiple factors influence the dynamics of chromatin interactions in development. labels: #Animals#CCCTC-Binding Factor#Chromatin#Embryonic Stem Cells#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Exons#Gene Expression#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genome#Mice#Neurogenesis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Repressor Proteins#Transcription Factors'
b'The mTORC1 kinase is a master growth regulator that senses many environmental cues, including amino acids. Activation of mTORC1 by arginine requires SLC38A9, a poorly understood lysosomal membrane protein with homology to amino acid transporters. Here, we validate that SLC38A9 is an arginine sensor for the mTORC1 pathway, and we uncover an unexpectedly central role for SLC38A9 in amino acid homeostasis. SLC38A9 mediates the transport, in an arginine-regulated fashion, of many essential amino acids out of lysosomes, including leucine, which mTORC1 senses through the cytosolic Sestrin proteins. SLC38A9 is necessary for leucine generated via lysosomal proteolysis to exit lysosomes and activate mTORC1. Pancreatic cancer cells, which use macropinocytosed protein as a nutrient source, require SLC38A9 to form tumors. Thus, through SLC38A9, arginine serves as a lysosomal messenger that couples mTORC1 activation to the release from lysosomes of the essential amino acids needed to drive cell growth. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Amino Acid Transport Systems#Amino Acids, Essential#Animals#Arginine#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Humans#Lysosomes#Male#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Multiprotein Complexes#Sequence Alignment#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases'
b'Ferroptosis is a form of programmed cell death that is pathogenic to several acute and chronic diseases and executed via oxygenation of polyunsaturated phosphatidylethanolamines (PE) by 15-lipoxygenases (15-LO) that normally use free polyunsaturated fatty acids as substrates. Mechanisms of the altered 15-LO substrate specificity are enigmatic. We sought a common ferroptosis regulator for 15LO. We discovered that PEBP1, a scaffold protein inhibitor of protein kinase cascades, complexes with two 15LO isoforms, 15LO1 and 15LO2, and changes their substrate competence to generate hydroperoxy-PE. Inadequate reduction of hydroperoxy-PE due to insufficiency or dysfunction of a selenoperoxidase, GPX4, leads to ferroptosis. We demonstrated the importance of PEBP1-dependent regulatory mechanisms of ferroptotic death in airway epithelial cells in asthma, kidney epithelial cells in renal failure, and cortical and hippocampal neurons in brain trauma. As master regulators of ferroptotic cell death with profound implications for human disease, PEBP1/15LO complexes represent a new target for drug discovery. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Animals#Apoptosis#Asthma#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Cell Death#Cell Line#Humans#Isoenzymes#Lipoxygenase#Mice#Models, Molecular#Oxazolidinones#Oxidation-Reduction#Phosphatidylethanolamine Binding Protein'
b'Angiopoietins signal through TIE receptors to control both developmental and homeostatic processes that can go awry in genetic diseases and cancer. This SnapShot illustrates key elements of angiopoietin signaling in normal and disease contexts. labels: #Angiopoietins#Endothelial Cells#Humans#Inflammation#Lymphangiogenesis#Neovascularization, Pathologic'
b'The gut microbiota contributes to the development of normal immunity but, when dysregulated, can promote autoimmunity through various non-antigen-specific effects on pathogenic and regulatory lymphocytes. Here, we show that an integrase expressed by several species of the gut microbial genus Bacteroides encodes a low-avidity mimotope of the pancreatic \xce\xb2 cell autoantigen islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase-catalytic-subunit-related protein (IGRP206-214). Studies in germ-free mice monocolonized with integrase-competent, integrase-deficient, and integrase-transgenic Bacteroides demonstrate that the microbial epitope promotes the recruitment of diabetogenic CD8+ T\xc2\xa0cells to the gut. There, these effectors suppress colitis by targeting microbial antigen-loaded, antigen-presenting cells in an integrin \xce\xb27-, perforin-, and major\xc2\xa0histocompatibility complex class I-dependent manner. Like their murine counterparts, human peripheral blood T\xc2\xa0cells also recognize Bacteroides integrase. These data suggest that gut microbial antigen-specific cytotoxic T\xc2\xa0cells may have therapeutic value in inflammatory bowel disease and unearth molecular mimicry as a novel mechanism by which the gut microbiota can regulate normal immune homeostasis. PAPERCLIP. labels: #Adult#Animals#Autoantigens#Bacteroides#Colitis#Female#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Glucose-6-Phosphatase#Humans#Lymphoid Tissue#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred NOD#Middle Aged#Molecular Mimicry#T-Lymphocytes'
b'BACKGROUND: Robotic-assisted lobectomy (RL) is becoming a popular alternative technique to video-assisted thoracoscopic lobectomy (VL), although open lobectomy (OL) remains the most common approach. The objective of this study is to provide a comparative analysis of perioperative clinical outcomes from elective RL, VL, and OL.METHODS: The Premier Healthcare Database was analyzed for lobectomies performed from January 1, 2011, to September 30, 2015. International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification diagnosis and procedure codes were used to identify surgical approaches, complications, and mortality. Propensity score matching (1:1) for patient and hospital characteristics allowed comparison of RL versus OL (n\xc2\xa0= 2,775 each) and RL versus VL (n\xc2\xa0= 2,951 each).RESULTS: Compared with OL in propensity matched analysis, RL was associated with a lower postoperative complication rate (p<0.0001), shorter hospital stay (p<0.0001), and lower mortality rate (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0282). Patients in the RL group were more likely to be discharged home than to a transitional health care facility (p<0.0001). Compared with VL, the RL group had a lower conversion rate to thoracotomy (p<0.0001), lower overall postoperative complication rate (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0061), and shorter hospital stay (p\xc2\xa0= 0.006). The RL patients also were more likely to be discharged home than to a transitional health care facility (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0108). The postoperative mortality rates of RL and VL were similar (p\xc2\xa0= 0.44). There was no difference in iatrogenic injuries when comparing RL with OL and RL with VL (p\xc2\xa0= 0.1284 and p\xc2\xa0= 0.5477, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Robotic-assisted lobectomy was associated with improved outcomes for certain perioperative clinical variables, including shorter length of stay and lower complication rates. It was also was associated with a lower conversion rate to OL compared with VL. labels: #Aged#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonectomy#Postoperative Complications#Prognosis#Propensity Score#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Robotic Surgical Procedures#Survival Analysis#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Thoracotomy#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b"This reports presents a case of a 62-year-old woman with hemorrhagic hypovolemic shock, respiratory distress, and pericardial effusion secondary to right atrial perforation caused by a cement embolus after dorsal spondylodesis. Despite optimal intensive care support for a supposed pulmonary embolism, the patient's condition markedly deteriorated. On delayed embolus recognition by contrast-enhanced computed tomography and transesophageal echocardiography, she had to undergo cardiac surgery. Cardiac involvement is a rare but important complication, with few cases described after vertebroplasty and none after spondylodesis. In our case, diagnosis before perforation would have allowed an endovascular approach, thereby avoiding open heart surgery. labels: #Accidental Falls#Bone Cements#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Critical Illness#Echocardiography, Transesophageal#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Atria#Heart Injuries#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Middle Aged#Pericardial Effusion#Risk Assessment#Spinal Fractures#Spinal Fusion#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome"
b'Tracheobronchial injuries can be difficult to diagnose and\xc2\xa0manage, especially in the presence of polytrauma. A 50-year-old woman presented as a Level I trauma activation after being struck by a motor vehicle. Initial evaluation demonstrated intracranial hemorrhage and multiple chest injuries, including multilevel bilateral rib fractures, pneumomediastinum, and concern for tracheobronchial injury. After initial stabilization, bronchoscopy was performed and demonstrated an injury to the carina. We report a novel airway and ventilation strategy in the setting of concomitant tracheobronchial injury after severe blunt chest trauma in which extracorporeal support is contraindicated. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Bronchi#Bronchoscopy#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Injury Severity Score#Middle Aged#Multiple Trauma#Positive-Pressure Respiration#Radiography, Thoracic#Risk Assessment#Thoracic Injuries#Trachea#Trauma Centers#Treatment Outcome#Wounds, Nonpenetrating'
b'Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) is considered useful for the staging and diagnosis of lung cancer or thoracic lymph node enlargement; however, little is known about its complications. Between July 2009 and November 2016, 413 patients underwent EBUS-TBNA, and four complications (0.97%) occurred. Here we report four cases involving complications of EBUS-TBNA, including mediastinitis (n\xc2\xa0= 2), obstructive pneumonia (n\xc2\xa0= 1), and airway obstruction requiring admission to the intensive care unit (n\xc2\xa0= 1). All patients recovered with appropriate medical treatment. Despite their low incidence, the complications associated with EBUS-TBNA can be serious. labels: #Aged#Airway Obstruction#Cohort Studies#Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Fine Needle Aspiration#Endosonography#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Lymph Nodes#Male#Mediastinitis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Prognosis#Radiography, Thoracic#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'Congenital lobar emphysema is a rare pulmonary malformation typically diagnosed during infancy and is characterized by bullous disease. A 28-year-old woman, who presented with 1 week of progressive dyspnea and chest pain, was found to have left hemithoracic lung hyperinflation with perfusion deficit upon radiographic evaluation. Bullous disease was found intraoperatively to originate from 1 lower lobe segment. Normal parenchymal lung expansion occurred following resection of the affected segment. Therefore, we present a rare case of congenital lobar emphysema resulting in near-complete occupancy of the left hemithorax and diagnosed in a previously asymptomatic adult without history of predisposing factors. labels: #Adult#Bronchoscopy#Chest Pain#Disease Progression#Dyspnea#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Pneumothorax#Positron-Emission Tomography#Pulmonary Emphysema#Radiography, Thoracic#Rare Diseases#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'The shortage of lungs for organ donation is problematic, and meeting the demand by expanding the donor pool in lung transplantation is critical. Donation after cardiac death (DCD) is an under-used approach that could be a valuable source of organs. However, procuring lungs from donors with a previous median sternotomy is technically difficult and is usually avoided. Here, we describe the procurement of lungs from a DCD patient with a previous median sternotomy. labels: #Death#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Graft Survival#Humans#Lung Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Radiography, Thoracic#Risk Assessment#Sternotomy#Tissue Donors#Tissue and Organ Procurement#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Transplant Recipients#Treatment Outcome'
b'Pneumococcal mycotic aneurysms are rare and associated with significant mortality and morbidity. Early intravenous antibiotic therapy and surgical intervention is the mainstay of treatment. Pneumococci frequently autolyze in blood cultures, making microbiological diagnosis challenging. We present the case of a man in his mid 70s with multiple thoracoabdominal mycotic aneurysms. Surgery was performed to a threatening saccular aortic arch aneurysm. Samples were sent for microbiological analysis and all were culture negative. The samples were then referred for bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing, which revealed evidence of infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae. labels: #Aged#Aneurysm, Infected#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Pathology, Molecular#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#RNA, Bacterial#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Streptococcus pneumoniae#Thoracotomy#Treatment Outcome'
b'This report describes the case of undiagnosed posttraumatic coronary artery dissection in a young multiorgan donor. Ex\xc2\xa0vivo preservation with the Organ Care System (TransMedics, Inc, Andover, MA) revealed the presence of coronary disease and avoided transplantation of an organ at high risk for failure. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Aneurysm, Dissecting#Cold Ischemia#Coronary Aneurysm#Diagnostic Errors#Female#Graft Rejection#Heart Transplantation#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Multiple Trauma#Organ Preservation#Tissue Donors'
b'Cor triatriatum sinister is a rare congenital lesion encountered in children. It consists of a fibromuscular membrane that separates the left atrium into two chambers resulting in a triatrial heart and often occurs with other structural cardiac anomalies. The acquired form is uncommon and has only been reported after orthotopic heart transplantation or as a complication of infective endocarditis in adults. These cases were mostly because of hypertrophied atrial tissue or suture lines and torsion of the atrium. We describe the first case of acquired cor triatriatum late after the Fontan procedure with successful surgical resection in a child. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Cardiac Catheterization#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Child#Cor Triatriatum#Double Outlet Right Ventricle#Echocardiography, Doppler, Color#Echocardiography, Transesophageal#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fontan Procedure#Heart Defects, Congenital#Humans#Monitoring, Physiologic#Reoperation#Treatment Outcome'
b'We herein report two cases of progressive left ventricular outflow obstruction after primary repair of arch obstruction and ventricular septal defect that was successfully resolved with Yasui conversion. Patients who require surgical reintervention for progressive left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction after primary biventricular repair of interruption of the aortic arch or coarctation of the aorta complex are occasionally experienced. The modified Konno procedure and Ross operation are well recognized as useful for these cases. However, in some patients, these procedures are difficult to perform because of anatomic restrictions or previous procedures. Although the indications are limited, the Yasui conversion is a safe, simple, and useful option for LVOT obstruction after primary biventricular repair. labels: #Anastomosis, Surgical#Aortic Coarctation#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Cardiopulmonary Bypass#Cardiovascular Abnormalities#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Septal Defects, Ventricular#Humans#Reoperation#Risk Assessment#Sampling Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Surgical Procedures#Ventricular Outflow Obstruction'
b'The double-switch operation for congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries, in which the morphologic left ventricle is restored to the systemic circulation, is an effective surgical option. This case report describes an atrial switch technique without using supplemental material during the double-switch operation for congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries associated with persistent left superior vena cava, with the systemic venous blood flow rerouted through the enlarged coronary sinus. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Arterial Switch Operation#Cardiac Catheterization#Combined Modality Therapy#Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Sinus#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Defects, Congenital#Heart Septal Defects, Atrial#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Infant#Male#Rare Diseases#Risk Assessment#Transposition of Great Vessels#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Surgical Procedures#Vena Cava, Superior'
b'Thoracoscopic S9-10 segmentectomy is more difficult than other segmentectomies because of the complexity of the peripheral pulmonary anatomies and the difficulty of dividing the intersegmental plane. In S9-10 segmentectomy, the intersegmental plane between segments S6 and S8 near the major fissure impedes division of the plane between segments S6 and S9-10, or S8 and S9-10. Dividing the intersegmental plane between segments S6 and S8 with stapling is difficult, because peripheral pulmonary anatomies are not exposed clearly. Herein, we describe the technique of stapler-based thoracoscopic S9-10 segmentectomy under indocyanine green fluorescence navigation. labels: #Aged#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Minimally Invasive Surgical Procedures#Pneumonectomy#Recovery of Function#Solitary Pulmonary Nodule#Surgical Staplers#Thoracoscopy#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'The technical details and anatomic features of medial-basal segment (S7) segmentectomy have not been reported. We report here thoracoscopic S7segmentectomy and S7a subsegmentectomy and explain the anatomic knowledge necessary to perform S7segmentectomy, especially the importance of recognizing bronchus (B7) branching patterns before surgery. labels: #Adult#Aged#Bronchography#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Multidetector Computed Tomography#Multimodal Imaging#Operative Time#Pneumonectomy#Retrospective Studies#Sampling Studies#Thoracoscopy#Treatment Outcome'
b'To date, anatomic subsuperior segment (S\xe2\x88\x97) segmentectomy has not yet been reported. Herein we report the technical details of thoracoscopic anatomic S\xe2\x88\x97 segmentectomy and the anatomic features of the S\xe2\x88\x97. labels: #Bronchography#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Monitoring, Intraoperative#Multidetector Computed Tomography#Multimodal Imaging#Patient Positioning#Pneumonectomy#Risk Assessment#Sampling Studies#Thoracoscopy#Treatment Outcome'
b'We successfully performed a pulmonary vein widening plasty in a patient with pulmonary vein stenosis and occlusion after multiple catheter ablations for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. labels: #Atrial Fibrillation#Catheter Ablation#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Veins#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Stenosis, Pulmonary Vein#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Patency#Vascular Surgical Procedures'
b'Bacopa monnieri (BM) is used in traditional medicine as nerve tonic. We have recently shown that CDRI-08, a standardized extract of BM, improves testicular functions and epididymal sperm quality in Parkes (P) mice. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of CDRI-08 on germ cell dynamics and mechanisms of its action on spermatogenesis and sperm quality in P mice, and to determine the chemical profile of the extract. CDRI-08 (40 and 80\xc2\xa0mg/kg body weight) was orally administered to male mice for 28 days. Germ cell dynamics, oxidative stress parameters in testis and sperm, and expressions of nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor-2 (Nrf2), phosphorylated protein kinase B (p-Akt) and upstream kinases in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway namely MAP2K1, MAP2K2 and MKK4 in the testis were evaluated. The treatment potentiated germ cell dynamics and improved sperm quality by enhancing antioxidant enzymes activities. The beneficial effects of CDRI-08 in the testis involve p-Akt-mediated activation of Nrf2, thereby enhancing antioxidant enzymes activities; upregulation of MAP2K1 and MAP2K2 and suppression of MKK4 are also implicated in this action. A total of 26 phytocomponents were identified in CDRI-08 by GC-MS. The results suggest that CDRI-08 also may prove useful in improving reproductive health in males. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Bacopa#India#Lipid Peroxidation#Male#Mice#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Plant Extracts#Plants, Medicinal#RNA, Messenger#Spermatogenesis#Spermatozoa'
b'Retroviral integrase catalyzes the integration of retroviral genome into host chromosomal DNA, which is a prerequisite of effective viral replication and infection. The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) integrase has previously been reported to be regulated by the ubiquitination, but the molecular characterization of integrase ubiquitination is still unclear. In this study, we analyzed the ubiquitination of avian leukosis virus (ALV) integrase in detail. The ubiquitination assay showed that, like HIV-1, ALV integrase could also be modified by ubiquitination when expressed in 293\xc2\xa0T and DF-1\xc2\xa0cells. Domain mapping analysis revealed that the ubiquitination of ALV integrase might mainly occurred in the catalytic core and the N-terminal zinc-binding domains. Both lysine and non-lysine residues within integrase of ALV and HIV-1 were responsible for the ubiquitin conjugation, and the N-terminal HHCC zinc-binding motif might play an important role in mediating integrase ubiquitination. Interestingly, mass spectrometry analysis identified the Thr10 and Cys37 residues in the HHCC zinc-binding motif as the ubiquitination sites, indicating that ubiquitin may be conjugated to ALV integrase through direct interaction with the non-lysine residues. These findings revealed the detailed features of retroviral integrase ubiquitination and found a novel mechanism of ubiquitination mediated by the non-lysine residues within the N-terminal zinc-binding domain of integrase. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Avian Leukosis Virus#Cell Line#Chickens#HEK293 Cells#HIV Integrase#HIV-1#Humans#Integrases#Lysine#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Retroviridae#Retroviridae Proteins#Ubiquitination#Zinc'
b'The acetylation of p53 is critical in modulating its pro-apoptotic roles. However, its regulatory mechanism and physiological significance are unclear. Here, we show HDAC6 negatively regulates pro-apoptotic acetylation of p53\xc2\xa0at lysine residue 120 (K120) in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). The loss of HDAC6 expression in MSCs increases K120 acetylation of p53, which is successfully reversed by the wild-type but not by catalytically dead HDAC6. Deletion of HDAC6 induces caspase-dependent apoptosis by promoting transactivation of Bax and suppression of Bcl-2. Moreover, HDAC6 deficiency leads to mitochondrial dysfunction characterized by aberrant reactive oxygen species production and defective oxidative phosphorylation, which is reversed by ectopic expression of wild-type or acetylation mimetic p53. This study demonstrates that HDAC6 is a critical regulator of a pro-apoptotic p53 K120 acetylation and mitochondrial function in MSCs, suggesting that the modulation of HDAC6 activity could be a novel approach to improve MSC- based therapies. labels: #Acetylation#Animals#Apoptosis#Histone Deacetylase 6#Histone Deacetylases#Lysine#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mitochondria#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'The hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated 2 (HCN2) channel is a major subtype of the HCN channel family expressed in the nervous system that sets the membrane potential, regulates cell excitability and senses changes in the extracellular environment. Neurons express various G\xce\xb1s-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), many of which show ligand-independent constitutive activity. These membrane-bound proteins are expressed in various subcellular compartments of neurons. Therefore, some proportion of HCN2 channels opens in response to the basal cAMP pool size produced by constitutively active GPCRs. Here, we employed an exogenous HEK293 expression system and voltage-clamp patch-clamp recordings to investigate basal HCN2 channel activity in the presence of two GPCRs with diverse basal activities in a single compartment. We utilized the \xce\xb22-adrenoceptor (\xce\xb22AR) together with odorant receptors (ORs), as both GPCR families are known to show strong basal activity. Consequently, \xce\xb22AR alone strongly enhanced the activity of HCN2 channels, and co-expression of ORs further diversified the HCN2 channel activity, which was totally abolished by an adenylate cyclase inhibitor. Thus, we conclude that the dual expression of constitutively active GPCRs establishes the diverse range of the basal cAMP pool size in resting cells through mutual additive or suppressive interactions, even in the absence of external stimulation. labels: #Cyclic AMP#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits, Gs#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Hyperpolarization-Activated Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated Channels#Ion Channel Gating#Patch-Clamp Techniques#Potassium Channels#Receptors, Adrenergic, beta-2#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Receptors, Odorant#Recombinant Proteins'
b'The encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) 3C protease (3Cpro) is one of a small number of viral proteins whose concentration is known to be regulated by the cellular ubiquitin-proteasome system. Here we report that the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UbcH7/UBE2L3 and the ubiquitin-protein ligase E6AP/UBE3A are components of a previously unknown EMCV 3Cpro-polyubiquitylating pathway. Following the identification of UbcH7/UBE2L3 as a participant in 3Cproubiquitylation, we purified a UbcH7-dependent 3Cpro-ubiquitylating activity from mouse cells, which we identified as E6AP. In\xc2\xa0vitro reconstitution assays demonstrated that E6AP catalyzes the synthesis of 3Cpro-attached Lys48-linked ubiquitin chains, known to be recognized by the 26S proteasome. We found that the 3Cproaccumulates to higher levels in EMCV-infected E6AP knockdown cells than in control cells, indicating a role for E6AP in in\xc2\xa0vivo 3Cproconcentration regulation. We also discovered that ARIH1 functions with UbcH7 to catalyze EMCV 3Cpromonoubiquitylation, but this activity does not influence the in\xc2\xa0vivo 3Cproconcentration. labels: #Animals#Cysteine Endopeptidases#Encephalomyocarditis virus#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Mice#NIH 3T3 Cells#Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex#Recombinant Proteins#Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzymes#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases#Ubiquitination#Viral Proteins'
b'Many critical metabolic functions in the brain require adequate and timely delivery of iron. However, most studies when considering brain iron uptake have ignored the iron requirements of the endothelial cells that form the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Moreover, current models of BBB iron transport do not address regional regulation of brain iron uptake or how neurons, when adapting to metabolic demands, can acquire more iron. In this study, we demonstrate that both iron-poor transferrin (apo-Tf) and the iron chelator, deferoxamine, stimulate release of iron from iron-loaded endothelial cells in an in\xc2\xa0vitro BBB model. The role of the endosomal divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) in BBB iron acquisition and transport has been questioned. Here, we show that inhibition of DMT1 alters the transport of iron and Tf across the endothelial cells. These data support an endosome-mediated model of Tf-bound iron uptake into the brain and identifies mechanisms for local regional regulation of brain iron uptake. Moreover, our data provide an explanation for the disparity in the ratio of Tf to iron transport into the brain that has confounded the field. labels: #Animals#Biological Transport, Active#Blood-Brain Barrier#Brain#Cation Transport Proteins#Cattle#Cells, Cultured#Endosomes#Endothelial Cells#Hepcidins#Iron#Microvessels#Models, Neurological#Transferrin'
b"Mitochondrial (mt) DNA-associated NARP (neurogenic muscle weakness, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa) syndrome is due to mutation in the MT-ATP6 gene. We report the case of a 18-year-old man who presented with deafness, a myoclonic epilepsy, muscle weakness since the age of 10 and further developed a retinitis pigmentosa and ataxia. The whole mtDNA analysis by next-generation sequencing revealed the presence of the 2 bp microdeletion m.9127-9128 del AT in the ATP6 gene at 82% heteroplasmy in muscle and to a lower load in blood (10-20%) and fibroblasts (50%). Using the patient's fibroblasts, we demonstrated a 60% reduction of the oligomycin-sensitive ATPase hydrolytic activity, a 40% decrease in the ATP synthesis and determination of the mitochondrial membrane potential using the fluorescent probe tetramethylrhodamine, ethyl ester indicated a significant reduction in oligomycin sensitivity. In conclusion, we demonstrated that this novel AT deletion in the ATP6 gene is pathogenic and responsible for the NARP syndrome. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Adenosine Triphosphate#Base Sequence#Carrier Proteins#Cells, Cultured#DNA Mutational Analysis#DNA, Mitochondrial#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Membrane Proteins#Mitochondrial Myopathies#Mitochondrial Proton-Translocating ATPases#Oligomycins#Retinitis Pigmentosa#Sequence Deletion#Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVES: The current study is a 1-year follow-up analysis of data from a randomized controlled trial of Enhanced Milieu Teaching (EMT) for toddlers with language delays. Outcomes and predictors of child language and parent intervention implementation were examined 6 and 12 months after the end of the intervention.METHODS: Toddlers with language delays were recruited from the community, and 97 toddlers and parents were randomly assigned to receive usual community treatments or a 3-month EMT intervention with parent training. Multiple regression analyses were used to estimate the differences between groups at the 6- and 12-month follow-up periods. A subgroup of participants with receptive and expressive language delays was used in a post hoc moderator analysis of treatment outcomes.RESULTS: Children in the treatment arm did not differ from children in the control arm at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. However, post hoc analyses revealed that children with receptive-expressive language delays were persistently delayed relative to normative performance throughout the follow-up period.CONCLUSIONS: The immediate effects of the brief delivery of EMT were not sustained over the 1-year follow-up period. However, the short-term intervention may not have been sufficient for children with receptive-expressive delays to develop typical language abilities, suggesting they may need more intensive early intervention. Although this intervention may not be necessary for all children with primary language delays, future research should determine the extent to which children with receptive-expressive delays may benefit from more intensive intervention. labels: #Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Language Development Disorders#Language Therapy#Male#Treatment Outcome'
b'Through coordinated and reciprocal interactions between the epithelium and mesenchyme, diverse integumentary organs form and undergo cyclic renewal. The hair follicle has become the main model to understand this extraordinary regenerative behavior. At the core is the dermal papilla, the organizing center, and the epithelial stem cells that respond to dermal papilla signaling. Two recent papers by Telerman et\xc2\xa0al. and Yang et\xc2\xa0al. unravel new molecular landscapes within the dermal papilla. labels: #Cells, Cultured#Dermis#Epithelium#Germ Cells#Hair#Hair Follicle#Humans#Mesoderm#Regeneration#Sensitivity and Specificity#Signal Transduction#Wnt Signaling Pathway'
b'Using a novel mouse model of scleroderma induced by immunization with topoisomerase-I peptide-loaded dendritic cells, Mehta et\xc2\xa0al. found that early-life antibiotic exposure resulted in increased later-life fibrosis in the skin and lungs. These observations advance the novel concept that gut microbiome alterations caused by early-life exposures may contribute to scleroderma pathogenesis, and warrant in-depth characterization and validation in complementary disease models. labels: #Age Factors#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Autoimmune Diseases#Disease Models, Animal#Disease Progression#Dysbiosis#Fibrosis#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Mice#Pulmonary Fibrosis#Scleroderma, Localized#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune blistering disease caused by anti-desmoglein 3 IgG autoantibodies. It is accepted that interactions between autoreactive B and T cells are key to humoral autoimmunity targeting desmoglein 3. This orchestrated process usually occurs in secondary lymphoid organs, including the spleen and lymph nodes. Thus, it seems likely that autoreactive B cells reside and produce autoantibodies in these tissues. Yuan et\xc2\xa0al. analyzed lymphocytes in the lesional skin of patients with pemphigus vulgaris using several experimental techniques and concluded that desmoglein 3-reactive B cells were present. This finding expands our understanding of the pathogenesis of pemphigus and should be considered when following the clinical course of skin lesions and thinking about adjunctive therapy. labels: #Autoantibodies#Autoimmunity#B-Lymphocytes#Biomarkers#Biopsy, Needle#Cell Communication#Desmoglein 3#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Immunohistochemistry#Interleukin-17#Interleukins#Male#Pemphigus#Risk Assessment#Sensitivity and Specificity#T-Lymphocytes'
b'Deletion of late cornified envelope (LCE) genes LCE3B and LCE3C (LCE3B/C-del) is a psoriasis risk factor linked to the major psoriasis risk gene HLA-C*06. Niehues et\xc2\xa0al. demonstrate that LCE3B/C-del leads to increased keratinocyte LCE3A expression. They also show that LCE3A/B/C possess antimicrobial activity but do not obviously regulate epidermal barrier integrity. These findings implicate LCE proteins in psoriasis pathogenesis via a new functional role. labels: #Anti-Infective Agents#Case-Control Studies#Cornified Envelope Proline-Rich Proteins#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Psoriasis#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Classical biochemical techniques have contributed a great deal to our understanding of the mechanisms regulating fundamental biological processes. However, these approaches are typically end-point, population-based assays and are often insufficient in examining transient molecular events. F\xc3\xb6rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy is a powerful technique capable of investigating dynamic interactions between proteins and a plethora of biochemical signaling events based on the development of specific biosensors. This technique exploits the principle that when FRET occurs, energy from a donor fluorophore is transferred to an acceptor fluorophore only when certain conditions are met. These include dependence on both distance and fluorophore orientation. In this article, applications of FRET microscopy to protein interactions and modifications are discussed, and examples are given of the types of biosensors that can be developed. There are a number of methods to measure FRET. The most common modalities and specific advantages and shortcomings for each are reviewed. Finally, general considerations and guidelines for choosing a method are discussed. labels: #Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer#Humans#Microscopy#Proteins#Research Design#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Traditionally, personalised nutrition was delivered at an individual level. However, the concept of delivering tailored dietary advice at a group level through the identification of metabotypes or groups of metabolically similar individuals has emerged. Although this approach to personalised nutrition looks promising, further work is needed to examine this concept across a wider population group. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to: (1) identify metabotypes in a European population and (2) develop targeted dietary advice solutions for these metabotypes. Using data from the Food4Me study (n 1607), k-means cluster analysis revealed the presence of three metabolically distinct clusters based on twenty-seven metabolic markers including cholesterol, individual fatty acids and carotenoids. Cluster 2 was identified as a metabolically healthy metabotype as these individuals had the highest Omega-3 Index (6\xc2\xb756 (sd 1\xc2\xb729) %), carotenoids (2\xc2\xb715 (sd 0\xc2\xb771) \xc2\xb5m) and lowest total saturated fat levels. On the basis of its fatty acid profile, cluster 1 was characterised as a metabolically unhealthy cluster. Targeted dietary advice solutions were developed per cluster using a decision tree approach. Testing of the approach was performed by comparison with the personalised dietary advice, delivered by nutritionists to Food4Me study participants (n 180). Excellent agreement was observed between the targeted and individualised approaches with an average match of 82 % at the level of delivery of the same dietary message. Future work should ascertain whether this proposed method could be utilised in a healthcare setting, for the rapid and efficient delivery of tailored dietary advice solutions. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Carotenoids#Cholesterol#Cluster Analysis#European Continental Ancestry Group#Fatty Acids, Omega-3#Female#Health Education#Healthy Diet#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Metabolome#Middle Aged#Nutrition Policy#Nutritional Status#Precision Medicine#Young Adult'
b'A maternal high-fat, high-sucrose (HFS) diet alters offspring glucose and lipid homoeostasis through unknown mechanisms and may be modulated by folic acid. We investigated the effect of a maternal HFS diet on glucose homoeostasis, expression of genes and proteins associated with insulin signalling and lipid metabolism and the effect of prenatal folic acid supplementation (HFS/F) in male rat offspring. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly fed control (CON), HFS or HFS/F diets. Offspring were weaned on CON; at postnatal day 70, fasting plasma insulin and glucose and liver and skeletal muscle gene and protein expression were measured. Treatment effects were assessed by one-way ANOVA. Maternal HFS diet induced higher fasting glucose in offspring v. HFS/F (P=0\xc2\xb7027) and down-regulation (P<0\xc2\xb705) of genes coding for v-Akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 2, resistin and v-Raf-1 murine leukaemia viral oncogene homolog 1 (Raf1) in offspring skeletal muscle and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (Acaca), fatty acid synthase and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-biphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit \xce\xb2 in offspring liver. Skeletal muscle neuropeptide Y and hepatic Kruppel-like factor 10 were up-regulated in HFS v. CON offspring (P<0\xc2\xb705). Compared with CON, Acaca and Raf1 protein expression levels were significantly lower in HFS offspring. Maternal HFS induced higher homoeostasis model of assessment index of insulin resistance v. CON (P=0\xc2\xb7030) and HFS/F was associated with higher insulin (P=0\xc2\xb7016) and lower glucose (P=0\xc2\xb7025). Maternal HFS diet alters offspring insulin sensitivity and de novo hepatic lipogenesis via altered gene and protein expression, which appears to be potentiated by folate supplementation. labels: #Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Blood Glucose#Diet, High-Fat#Down-Regulation#Fatty Acid Synthases#Female#Folic Acid#Insulin#Insulin Resistance#Lipid Metabolism#Liver#Male#Maternal Nutritional Physiological Phenomena#Phosphotransferases (Alcohol Group Acceptor)#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-raf#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Resistin#Up-Regulation'
b'Colonic effects of extruded whole-grain sorghum diets were evaluated using a model of growing rats. In all, twenty-four male Wistar rats were fed control (C), extruded white sorghum (EWS) or red sorghum (ERS). Consumption of sorghum diets showed satiety properties, with reduction of caecal pH, and lower activity of \xce\xb2-glucosidase and \xce\xb2-glucuronidase enzymes. Decreased copper zinc superoxide dismutase and manganese superoxide dismutase and increased catalase and glutathione peroxidase levels were observed in colonic mucosa. The induction of antioxidant enzymes occurred through the activation of the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 protein and its subsequent translocation into the nucleus. ERS was able to decrease the proliferation of proximal mucosa of colon, demonstrating a possible effect against colorectal tumourigenesis. EWS increased proliferation and also apoptosis, ensuring the re-establishment of homoeostasis of the colonic mucosa. No antioxidant systemic effect (serum or hepatic level) was observed. It is likely that despite the extrusion the low bioavailability of the phenolic compounds of sorghum diets caused them to exert mainly acute effects at the colon level. Extruded whole-grain sorghum is a good functional ingredient that might be promising in dietary prevention of intestinal diseases. labels: #Animals#Catalase#Colon#Diet#Disease Models, Animal#Glucuronidase#Glutathione Peroxidase#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Intestinal Diseases#Intestinal Mucosa#Male#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Satiation#Sorghum#Superoxide Dismutase#Whole Grains#beta-Glucosidase'
b'BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have yielded variants at>30 loci that associate with atrial\xc2\xa0fibrillation (AF), including rare coding mutations in the sarcomere genes MYH6 and MYL4.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to search for novel AF associations and in doing so gain insights into the mechanisms whereby variants affect AF risk, using electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements.METHODS: The authors performed a GWAS of 14,255 AF cases and 374,939 controls, using whole-genome sequence data from the Icelandic population, and tested novel signals in 2,002 non-Icelandic cases and 12,324 controls. They then tested the AF variants for effect on cardiac electrical function by using measurements in 289,297 ECGs from 62,974 individuals.RESULTS: The authors discovered 2 novel AF variants, the intergenic variant rs72700114, between the genes LINC01142 and METTL11B (risk allele frequency\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.1%; odds ratio [OR]: 1.26; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa03.1\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-18), and the missense variant p.Gly4098Ser in PLEC (frequency\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.2%; OR: 1.55; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.0\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-10), encoding plectin, a cytoskeletal cross-linking protein that contributes to integrity of cardiac tissue. The authors also confirmed 29 reported variants. p.Gly4098Ser in PLEC significantly affects various ECG measurements in the absence of AF. Other AF variants have diverse effects on the\xc2\xa0conduction system, ranging from none to extensive.CONCLUSIONS: The discovery of a missense variant in PLEC affecting AF combined with recent discoveries of variants in\xc2\xa0the sarcomere genes MYH6 and MYL4 points to an important role of myocardial structure in the pathogenesis of the\xc2\xa0disease. The diverse associations between AF variants and ECG measurements suggest fundamentally different\xc2\xa0categories of mechanisms contributing to the development of AF. labels: #Atrial Fibrillation#Electrocardiography#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genomic Structural Variation#Humans#Mutation, Missense#Myosin Light Chains#Plectin#Risk#Sarcomeres'
b'Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein F (hnRNP F) controls the expression of various genes through regulating the alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs in the nucleus. It uses three quasi-RNA recognition motifs (qRRMs) to recognize G-tract RNA which contains at least three consecutive guanines. The structures containing qRRMs of hnRNP F in complex with G-tract RNA have been determined by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, shedding light on the recognition mechanism of qRRMs with G-tract RNA. However, knowledge of the recognition details is still lacking. To investigate how qRRMs specifically bind with G-tract RNA and how the mutations of any guanine to an adenine in the G-tract affect the binding, molecular dynamics simulations with binding free energy analysis were performed based on the NMR structure of qRRM2 in complex with G-tract RNA. Simulation results demonstrate that qRRM2 binds strongly with G-tract RNA, but any mutation of the G-tract leads to a drastic reduction of the binding free energy. Further comparisons of the energetic components reveal that van der Waals and non-polar interactions play essential roles in the binding between qRRM2 and G-tract RNA, but the interactions are weakened by the effect of RNA mutations. Structural and dynamical analyses indicate that when qRRM2 binds with G-tract RNA, both qRRM2 and G-tract maintain stabilized structures and dynamics; however, the stability is disrupted by the mutations of the G-tract. These results provide novel insights into the recognition mechanism of qRRM2 with G-tract RNA that are not elucidated by the NMR technique. labels: #Base Sequence#Binding Sites#Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Group F-H#Humans#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Mutation#Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular#Nucleic Acid Conformation#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation#Protein Stability#RNA#RNA Recognition Motif#RNA-Binding Motifs'
b'Forkhead box k1 (FOXK1) is a member of the FOX class of transcription factors and it is dysregulated in many solid tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer and prostate cancer. However, the expression status of FOXK1 and its clinical significance in esophageal cancer (EC) is still uncertain. Our study aimed at investigating the significance of FOXK1 expression in human EC and its biological function in the development of EC. We found that FOXK1 was overexpressed in EC tissues compared with corresponding non-tumor tissues using immunohistochemistry. And high FOXK1 expression was related to poor differentiation of EC. The Kaplan-Meier curve indicated that high FOXK1 expression may result in poor prognosis of EC patients. Furthermore, overexpression of FOXK1 in EC9706\xc2\xa0cell inhibited cell apoptosis and promoted cell proliferation and migration, and suppression of FOXK1 in EC109\xc2\xa0cell obtained reverse results. Our data suggest that FOXK1 plays an oncogenic role in EC pathogenesis and can serve as a therapeutic target for patients with EC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Oncogene Proteins#Prognosis#RNA, Small Interfering'
b'TGF-\xce\xb2 type III receptor (T\xce\xb2RIII) is a co-receptor for TGF\xce\xb2 family members required for high-affinity binding of these ligands to their receptors, potentiating their cellular functions. TGF-\xce\xb2s, Bone Morphogenetic Proteins (BMP2/4) and Inhibins/Activins regulate different checkpoints during T cell differentiation. We have previously reported that T\xce\xb2RIII modulates T cell development by protecting developing thymocytes from apoptosis, however the role of this co-receptor in peripheral lymphocytes still remains elusive. Here we describe a detailed characterization of T\xce\xb2RIII expression in murine and human lymphocyte subpopulations demonstrating that this co-receptor is significantly expressed in T but not B lymphocytes and among them, preferentially expressed on na\xc3\xafve and central memory T cells. T\xce\xb2RIII was upregulated after TCR stimulation, in parallel to other early activation markers. In contrast, natural and induced Tregs downregulated T\xce\xb2RIII in association with FoxP3 upregulation. Finally, anti-T\xce\xb2RIII blocking experiments demonstrated that T\xce\xb2RIII promotes TGF\xce\xb2-dependent iTreg conversion in\xc2\xa0vitro, and suggest that this co-receptor may be involved in modulating peripheral T cell tolerance and could be considered as a potential target to boost T cell immune responses. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Humans#Immunologic Memory#In Vitro Techniques#Lymphocyte Activation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Proteoglycans#Receptors, Antigen, T-Cell#Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta#Signal Transduction#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Up-Regulation'
b'Dysregulated potassium (K+) channels have previously been shown to promote the development and progression of many types of cancers. Meanwhile, K+channels are particularly important in regulating the endocrine and exocrine functions of pancreas. However, the expression pattern and prognostic significance of K+channels in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remain unknown. In this study, by screening a GEO dataset containing 36 microdissected PDAC and matching normal pancreatic tissue samples, four differentially expressed K+channels (KCNJ5, KCNJ16, KCNN4 and KCNK1) were identified in PDAC. by immunohistochemical analysis of pancreatic tissue sections from Pdx1-Cre; LSL-KrasG12D/+mice (KC), Pdx1-Cre; LSL-KrasG12D/+; LSL-Trp53R172H/+mice (KPC) and human PDAC tissue microarrays, we found that Ca2+-activated K+channel KCNN4 was significantly elevated in pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) and PDAC epithelia compared with untransformed pancreas tissues. Higher epithelial KCNN4 expression was closely correlated with advanced TNM stages and predicted a poor prognosis in patients with PDAC. Elevated KCNN4 expression was significantly associated with shorter survival in univariable and multivariable analyses. Collectively, the identification of expression pattern of K+channels in PDAC and its precursor PanIN demonstrates the importance of KCNN4 channel during the malignant transformation of PDAC. On the basis of the prognostic signals from two independent cohorts, KCNN4 should be considered as a promising therapeutic target. labels: #Aged#Animals#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma in Situ#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Intermediate-Conductance Calcium-Activated Potassium Channels#Male#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Middle Aged#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Potassium Channels, Tandem Pore Domain#Prognosis'
b'Insulin resistance is a major defect underlying type 2 diabetes development. Skeletal muscle tissue and adipocyte tissue are the major sites of postprandial glucose disposal, and enhancing glucose uptake into this tissue may decrease insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes patients. Mahanine (3,11-dihydro-3,5-dimethyl-3-(4-methyl-3-pentenyl)pyrano[3,2-a]carbazol-9-ol) has been reported to be a major bioactive carbazole alkaloid that has many biological activities including antitumor, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anti-diabetic activities. However, the molecular mechanism and signaling pathways mediating the anti-diabetic effects of mahanine require further investigation. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of mahanine, a carbazole alkaloid from Murraya koenigii, on glucose uptake and glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) translocation in skeletal muscle and adipocyte cells. Mahanine treatment promoted a dose dependent increased in glucose uptake in L6 myotubes and adipocyte cells via activation of the Akt signaling pathway. Mahanine induced Akt-activation was reversed by co-treatment with wortmannin, an Akt inhibitor. Moreover, it was found that mahanine significantly enhanced GLUT4 translocation to the plasma membrane in L6 myotubes. These results suggest that increased activation of the Akt signaling pathway lead to increased plasma membrane GLUT4 content and increased glucose uptake. These data strongly suggest that mahanine has anti-diabetic potential for treating diabetes. labels: #3T3-L1 Cells#AMP-Activated Protein Kinases#Adipocytes#Animals#Biological Transport, Active#Carbazoles#Cell Line#Cell Membrane#Cell Survival#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Glucose#Glucose Transporter Type 4#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin Resistance#Mice#Muscle Fibers, Skeletal#Muscle, Skeletal#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND: Bisphenol A (BPA) is one of the most widely used chemicals, often used in epoxy resins, health products and colors. This study aims to investigate the effect of various doses of BPA on hepatotoxicity in rats.METHOD: This experimental study was conducted using 20 male adult Wistar rats older than 2 months weighing 150-200\xc2\xa0g. (5, 25 and 125\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/kg) BPA was administered by gavage for 35 consecutive days. The animals were weighed at the beginning and the end of the experiment. The level of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase were determined using colorimetric method. The liver tissue was kept in the freezer at\xc2\xa0-80\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C for histological studies.FINDING: The body weight of rats receiving BPA decreased significantly compared to control group and this weight loss was more evident at doses of 25 and 125\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/kg (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Results of the study demonstrated that the level of ALP and AST decreases significantly (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001 and p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05, respectively), while the level of ALT did not change. The results that BPA significantly decreased Beta-2 protein and increased Gama protein serum levels in rats (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01).CONCLUSION: Results of this study demonstrated that BPA increase gamma globulin protein levels and decreases the level of alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase and serum protein \xce\xb22 and causes weight loss in rats after treatment. This research also demonstrated that the toxic effect of BPA on liver is induced by oxidative stress. labels: #Alanine Transaminase#Alkaline Phosphatase#Animals#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Benzhydryl Compounds#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Environmental Pollutants#Liver#Male#Oxidative Stress#Phenols#Rats#Rats, Wistar'
b"Pathogen avoidance behaviors are found throughout the animal kingdom and are important for animal's survival in nature. As a free-living nematode, C.\xc2\xa0elegans is exposed to a variety of microorganisms, including toxic or pathogenic bacteria, in soil. C.\xc2\xa0elegans can develop efficient avoidance responses to pathogenic bacteria to minimize the infection risk. However, the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in pathogen avoidance in C.\xc2\xa0elegans remains unclear. In this report, we showed that the miRNA mir-67 was involved in a behavioral avoidance response to P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14. Exposure to P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14 induced the expression of mir-67 in worms. mir-67(n4899) mutants exhibited a reduced ability to avoid P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14. By combining quantitative proteomic analysis with miRNA target prediction algorithms, we identified SAX-7/L1CAM, which is transmembrane cell adhesion receptor molecule, as the target of mir-67. Silencing of sax-7 by RNAi on mir-67 mutants rescued avoidance behavioral. Our data demonstrate that the mir-67-SAX-7 pathway modulate the behavioral avoidance response to pathogens, thus providing a new perspective in the role of miRNAs in host-microbe interactions. labels: #Animals#Avoidance Learning#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Host-Pathogen Interactions#MicroRNAs#Neural Cell Adhesion Molecules#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#RNA, Helminth#Signal Transduction"
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We aimed to determine the association between stress hyperglycemia and risk of new stroke in patients with a minor ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack.METHODS: A subgroup of 3026 consecutive patients from 73 prespecified sites of the CHANCE trial (Clopidogrel in High-Risk Patients With Acute Nondisabling Cerebrovascular Events) were analyzed. Stress hyperglycemia was measured by glucose/glycated albumin (GA) ratio. Glucose/GA ratio was calculated by fasting plasma glucose divided by GA and categorized into 4 even groups according to the quartiles. The primary outcome was a new stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic) at 90 days. We assessed the association between glucose/GA ratio and risk of stroke by multivariable Cox regression models adjusted for potential covariates.RESULTS: Among 3026 patients included, a total of 299 (9.9%) new stroke occurred at 3 months. Compared with patients with the lowest quartile, patients with the highest quartile of glucose/GA ratio was associated with an increased risk of stroke at 3 months after adjusted for potential covariates (12.0% versus 9.2%; adjusted hazard ratio, 1.46; 95% confidence interval, 1.06-2.01). Similar results were observed after further adjusted for fasting plasma glucose. We also observed that higher level of glucose/GA ratio was associated with an increased risk of stroke with a threshold of 0.29 using a Cox regression model with restricted cubic spline.CONCLUSIONS: Stress hyperglycemia, measured by glucose/GA ratio, was associated with an increased risk of stroke in patients with a minor ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00979589. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Blood Glucose#Brain Ischemia#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Hyperglycemia#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Serum Albumin#Stroke#Ticlopidine'
b'of surveillance testing, April to June 2017International disease occurrence in the second quarter of 2017These are among matters discussed in the most recent quarterly equine disease surveillance report, prepared by Defra, the Animal Health Trust and the British Equine Veterinary Association. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Infections#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Horse Diseases#Horses#Internationality#Male#Parasitic Diseases, Animal#Pregnancy#Sentinel Surveillance#United Kingdom#Virus Diseases'
b'There are more migrants, refugees, and immigrants adrift in the world today than at any time in the recent past. Doctors and hospitals must care for people from many different cultures, countries, and religious backgrounds. We sometimes find our own deeply held beliefs and values challenged. In this "Ethics Rounds," we present a case in which a Pakistani immigrant family faces a tragic medical situation and wants to deal with it in ways that might be normative in their own culture but are aberrant in ours. We asked the American doctors and 2 Pakistani health professionals to think through the issues. We also invited the father to talk about his own experience and preferences. We conclude that strict adherence to Western ethical norms may not always be the best choice. Instead, an approach based on cultural humility may often allow people on both sides of a cultural divide to learn from one another. labels: #Attitude to Death#Child#Communication#Cross-Cultural Comparison#Humans#Male#Pakistan#Physician-Patient Relations#Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Children with severe influenza infection may require parenteral therapy if oral or inhaled therapies are ineffective or cannot be administered. Results from a study investigating intravenous (IV) zanamivir for the treatment of hospitalized infants and children with influenza are presented.METHODS: This phase II, open-label, multicenter, single-arm study assessed the safety of investigational IV zanamivir in hospitalized children with influenza. Safety outcomes included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), clinical laboratory measurements, and vital signs. Clinical outcomes, pharmacokinetics, and virologic efficacy data were collected as key secondary outcomes.RESULTS: In total, 71 children received treatment with investigational IV zanamivir (exposure comparable to 600 mg twice daily in adults). TEAEs and serious TEAEs (STEAEs) were reported in 51 (72%) and 15 (21%) patients, respectively. The mortality rate was 7%, and median durations of hospital and ICU stays were 6 and 7.5 days, respectively. No STEAEs or deaths were considered related to IV zanamivir treatment, and no patterns of TEAEs, laboratory abnormalities, or vital signs were observed. The mean zanamivir exposures from 34 patients with normal renal function who received 12 mg/kg, 14 mg/kg, or 600 mg of IV zanamivir ranged from 64.5 to 110 hour\xc2\xb7\xc2\xb5g/mL. The median change from baseline in the viral load was -1.81 log10copies per mL after 2 days of treatment.CONCLUSIONS: The safety profile of IV zanamivir was favorable, with no drug-related STEAEs reported. The majority of children experienced virologic response and clinical improvement during the treatment course. Systemic zanamivir exposures in children were consistent with adults. labels: #Adolescent#Antiviral Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Infant#Influenza, Human#Infusions, Intravenous#Male#Neutropenia#Viral Load#Zanamivir'
b'Cryopreservation of Senegalese sole sperm can represent an alternative to overcome some reproductive problems of this species. However, it is important to guarantee the safe use of cryopreserved sperm by selecting an appropriate protocol according to a high demand quality need to be ensured. It has been demonstrated that traditional assays such as motility and viability do not provide enough information to identify specific damage caused by cryopreservation process (freezing and thawing). Specific tests, including lipid peroxidation and DNA damage, should be performed. In the present study, motility and lipid peroxidation were performed as specific tests allowing us to discard cryopreservation conditions such as methanol as internal cryoprotectant and bovine serum albumin as external cryoprotectant. In addition, a caspase 3/7 detection by flow cytometry was performed to analyze apoptosis activity in the best selected conditions. Moreover, new highly sensitive tests based on transcript number detection have recently been described in fish sperm cryopreservation. For this reason, a transcript level detection assay was performed on certain oxidative and chaperone genes related to fertilization ability and embryo development (hsp70, hsp90BB, hsp90AA, gpx) to select the best cryopreservation conditions. DMSO+ egg yolk proved to be the best cryoprotectant combination in terms of transcript level. This study describes an optimized cryopreservation protocol for Solea senegalensis sperm demonstrating for the first time that transcript degradation is the most sensitive predictor of cell status in this species after cryopreservation. labels: #Animals#Cryopreservation#Flatfishes#Male#Semen Preservation#Spermatozoa'
b'INTRODUCTION: Existing studies on facial growth were mostly cross-sectional in nature and only a limited number of facial measurements were investigated. The purposes of this study were to longitudinally investigate facial growth of Chinese in Hong Kong from 12 through 15 to 18 years of age and to compare the magnitude of growth changes between genders.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Standardized frontal and lateral facial photographs were taken from 266 (149 females and 117 males) and 265 (145 females and 120 males) participants, respectively, at all three age levels. Linear and angular measurements, profile inclinations, and proportion indices were recorded. Statistical analyses were performed to investigate growth changes of facial features. Comparisons were made between genders in terms of the magnitude of growth changes from ages 12 to 15, 15 to 18, and 12 to 18 years. For the overall face, all linear measurements increased significantly (p<0.05) except for height of the lower profile in females (p = 0.069) and width of the face in males (p = 0.648). In both genders, the increase in height of eye fissure was around 10% (p<0.001). There was significant decrease in nasofrontal angle (p<0.001) and increase in nasofacial angle (p<0.001) in both genders and these changes were larger in males. Vermilion-total upper lip height index remained stable in females (p = 0.770) but increased in males (p = 0.020). Nasofrontal angle (effect size: 0.55) and lower vermilion contour index (effect size: 0.59) demonstrated large magnitude of gender difference in the amount of growth changes from 12 to 18 years.CONCLUSIONS: Growth changes of facial features and gender differences in the magnitude of facial growth were determined. The findings may benefit different clinical specialties and other nonclinical fields where facial growth are of interest. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Face#Female#Hong Kong#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Photogrammetry'
b"PURPOSE: To assess the optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) retinal vessel density and foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in children with type 1 diabetes (T1D) and compare potential pathologic early changes in this population to healthy age-matched controls.METHODS: This study included 130 pubescent children: 94 with T1D (188 eyes) and 36 of their age-matched control group (60 eyes). OCTA was performed using AngioVue (Avanti, Optivue). FAZ area (mm2) in superficial plexus, whole superficial capillary vessel density (wsVD), fovea superficial vessel density (fsVD), parafovea superficial vessel density (psVD), whole deep vessel density (wdVD), fovea deep vessel density (fdVD), parafovea deep vessel density (pdVD), foveal thickness (FT) (\xce\xbcm) and parafoveal thickness (PFT) (\xce\xbcm) were taken into analysis. Among the studied patients with T1D there were assessed codependences regarding the investigated foveal and parafoveal parameters and selected potential predictors, i.e. patient's age (years), diabetes duration time (years), age of onset of the disease (years), mean level of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1C) (%), and concentration of serum creatinine (mg/dL).RESULTS: None of the abovementioned OCT and OCTA parameters was statistically significantly different between the groups. The patient's age statistically significantly did not influent any of the OCT and OCTA parameters. Yet an elevated level of HbA1C tended to reduce the parafovea superficial vessel density (p = 0.039), and parafoveal thickness (p = 0.003) and an increased serum creatinine level correlated with the decreased whole deep vessel density (p<0.001). The parafovea deep vessel density in the diabetic patients decreased when the serum creatinine level (p = 0.008), age of onset of the disease (p = 0.028), and diabetes duration time (p = 0.014) rose.CONCLUSIONS: Vessel density, both in superficial and deep plexuses, and FAZ area are normal in pubescent children with T1D comparing to healthy subjects. An elevated level of HbA1C correlated with reduced psVD and PFT. Longitudinal observation of these young patients is needed to determine if any of these OCTA measurements are predictive of future DR severity. labels: #Adolescent#Case-Control Studies#Child#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence"
b'Defining the vocal repertoire provides a basis for understanding the role of acoustic signals in sexual and social interactions of an animal. The Asian koel (Eudynamys scolopacea) is a migratory bird which spends its summer breeding season in the plains of Pakistan. The bird is typically wary and secretive but produces loud and distinct calls, making it easily detected when unseen. Like the other birds in the wild, presumably Asian koels use their calls for social cohesion and coordination of different behaviors. To date, the description of vocal repertoire of the male Asian koel has been lacking. Presently we analyzed and described for the first time the vocalizations of the adult male Asian koel, recorded in two consecutive breeding seasons. Using 10 call parameters, we categorized the vocalization type into six different categories on the basis of spectrogram and statistical analyses, namely the; "type 1 cooee call", "type 2 cooee call", "type 1 coegh call", "type 2 coegh call", "wurroo call" and "coe call". These names were assigned not on the basis of functional analysis and were therefore onomatopoeic. Stepwise cross validated discriminant function analysis classified the vocalization correctly (100%) into the predicted vocal categories that we initially classified on the basis of spectrographic examination. Our findings enrich the biological knowledge about vocalizations of the adult male Asian koel and provide a foundation for future acoustic monitoring of the species, as well as for comparative studies with vocalizations of other bird species of the cuckoo family. Further studies on the vocalizations of the Asian koel are required to unravel their functions in sexual selection and individual recognition. labels: #Animals#Birds#Breeding#Male#Sexual Behavior, Animal'
b'Increasing temperature and CO2 concentrations can alter tritrophic interactions in ecosystems, but the impact of increasingly severe drought on such interactions is not well understood. We examined the response of a wheat-aphid-parasitoid system to variation in water-deficit stress levels. Our results showed that arid area clones of the aphid, Sitobion avenae (Fabricius), tended to have longer developmental times compared to semiarid and moist area clones, and the development of S. avenae clones tended to be slower with increasing levels of water-deficit. Body sizes of S. avenae clones from all areas decreased with increasing water-deficit levels, indicating their declining adaptation potential under drought. Compared to arid area clones, moist area clones of S. avenae had a higher frequency of backing under severe water stress only, but a higher frequency of kicking under well-watered conditions only, suggesting a water-deficit level dependent pattern of resistance against the parasitoid, Aphidius gifuensis (Ashmead). The number of S. avenae individuals attacked by the parasitoid in 10 min showed a tendency to decrease with increasing water-deficit levels. Clones of S. avenae tended to have lower parasitism rates under treatments with higher water-deficit levels. The development of the parasitoid tended to be slower under higher levels of water-deficit stress. Thus, the bottom-up effects of water-deficit stressed plants were negative on S. avenae. However, the top-down effects via parasitoids were compromised by water-deficit, which could favor the growth of aphid populations. Overall, the first trophic level under water-deficit stress was shown to have an indirect and negative impact on the third trophic level parasitoid, suggesting that parasitoids could be increasingly vulnerable in future warming scenarios. labels: #Animals#Aphids#Dehydration#Triticum'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there are differences in autonomic nervous system function in early- versus late-onset preeclampsia.METHODS: Matched case-control study. Cases were defined as singleton pregnancies with preeclampsia at<34+0 weeks of gestation (early-onset preeclampsia) and \xe2\x89\xa5 34+0 weeks of gestation (late-onset preeclampsia). For each case in each of the preeclampsia subgroups, three "control"uncomplicated singleton pregnancies were matched by maternal age, height, and week of gestation. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured continuously for 30 minutes in each participant. Baroreceptor reflex sensitivity (assessed using sequence technique), time and frequency domain heart rate variability measures, as SDNN, RMSSD, LFRRI, HFRRI and LF/HFRRI of R-R intervals, were compared between groups (p<0.05 significant).RESULTS: 24 women with preeclampsia (10 with early-onset and 14 with late-onset preeclampsia) and 72 controls were included in the study. SDNN, RMSSD and HFRRI were significantly higher in the late-onset preeclampsia group compared to gestational age matched controls (p = 0.033, p = 0.002 and p = 0.018, respectively). No significant differences in SDNN RMSSD and HFRRI between early-onset preeclampsia group and gestational age matched controls were observed (p = 0.304, p = 0.325 and p = 0.824, respectively). Similarly, baroreceptor reflex sensitivity was higher in late-onset preeclampsia compared to controls at \xe2\x89\xa5 34 weeks (p = 0.037), but not different between early-onset preeclampsia compared to controls at<34 weeks (p = 0.50).CONCLUSIONS: Heart rate variability and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity are increased in late- but not early-onset preeclampsia compared to healthy pregnancies. This indicates a better autonomic nervous system mediated adaptation to preeclampsia related cardiovascular changes in late-onset disease. labels: #Adult#Case-Control Studies#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Pre-Eclampsia#Pregnancy#Pressoreceptors'
b"BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that strength training effects (i.e. neural or structural) vary, depending on the total repetitions performed and velocity loss in each training set.PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to compare the effects of two training programmes (i.e. one with loads that maximise power output and individualised repetitions, and the other following traditional power training).METHODS: Twenty-five males were divided into three groups (optimum power [OP = 10], traditional training [TT = 9]and control group [CG = 6]). The training load used for OP was individualised using loads that maximised power output (41.7% \xc2\xb1 5.8 of one repetition maximum [1RM]) and repetitions at maximum power (4 to 9 repetitions, or 'reps'). Volume (sets x repetitions) was the same for both experimental groups, while intensity for TT was that needed to perform only 50% of the maximum number of possible repetitions (i.e. 61.1%-66.6% of 1RM). The training programme ran over 11 weeks (2 sessions per week; 4-5 sets per session; 3-minute rests between sets), with pre-, intermediate and post-tests which included: anthropometry, 1RM, peak power output (PPO) with 30%, 40% and 50% of 1RM in the bench press throw, and salivary testosterone (ST) and cortisol (SC) concentrations. Rate of perceived exertion (RPE) and power output were recorded in all sessions.RESULTS: Following the intermediate test, PPO was increased in the OP group for each load (10.9%-13.2%). Following the post-test, both experimental groups had increased 1RM (11.8%-13.8%) and PPO for each load (14.1%-19.6%). Significant decreases in PPO were found for the TT group during all sets (4.9%-15.4%), along with significantly higher RPE (37%).CONCLUSION: OP appears to be a more efficient method of training, with less neuromuscular fatigue and lower RPE. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Muscle Strength#Resistance Training"
b"The red-backed salamander (Plethodon cinereus) has long-served as a model system in ecology, evolution, and behavior, and studies surveying molecular variation in this species have become increasingly common over the past decade. However, difficulties are commonly encountered when extending microsatellite markers to populations that are unstudied from a genetic perspective due to high levels of genetic differentiation across this species' range. To ameliorate this issue, we used 454 pyrosequencing to identify hundreds of microsatellite loci. We then screened 40 of our top candidate loci in populations in Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Ohio-including an isolated island population ~ 4.5 km off the shore of Lake Erie (South Bass Island). We identified 25 loci that are polymorphic in a well-studied region of Virginia and 11 of these loci were polymorphic in populations located in the genetically unstudied regions of Ohio and Pennsylvania. Use of these loci to examine patterns of variation within populations revealed that South Bass Island has low diversity in comparison to other sites. However, neither South Bass Island nor isolated populations around Cleveland are inbred. Assessment of variation between populations revealed three well defined genetic clusters corresponding to Virginia, mainland Ohio/Pennsylvania, and South Bass Island. Comparisons of our results to those of others working in various parts of the range are consistent with the idea that differentiation is lower in regions that were once glaciated. However, these comparisons also suggest that well differentiated isolated populations in the formerly glaciated portion of the range are not uncommon. This work provides novel genetic resources that will facilitate population genetic studies in a part of the red-backed salamander's range that has not previously been studied in this manner. Moreover, this work refines our understanding of how neutral variation is distributed in this ecologically important organism. labels: #Animals#Genetic Markers#Genetic Variation#Microsatellite Repeats#Ohio#Pennsylvania#Urodela#Virginia"
b'BACKGROUND: Chronic exposure of mammalian organism to morphine results in adaption to persistent high opioid tone through homeostatic adjustments. Our previous results indicated that in the frontal brain cortex (FBC) of rats exposed to morphine for 10 days, such a compensatory adjustment was detected as large up-regulation of adenylylcyclases I (8-fold) and II (2.5-fold). The other isoforms of AC (III-IX) were unchanged. Importantly, the increase of ACI and ACII was reversible as it disappeared after 20 days of morphine withdrawal. Changes of down-stream signaling molecules such as G proteins and adenylylcyclases should respond to and be preceded by primary changes proceeding at receptor level. Therefore in our present work, we addressed the problem of reversibility of the long-term morphine effects on \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR protein levels in FBC.METHODS: Rats were exposed to increasing doses of morphine (10-40 mg/kg) for 10 days and sacrificed either 24 h (group +M10) or 20 days (group +M10/-M20) after the last dose of morphine in parallel with control animals (groups -M10 and -M10/-M20). Post-nuclear supernatant (PNS) fraction was prepared from forebrain cortex, resolved by 1D-SDS-PAGE under non-dissociated (-DTT) and dissociated (+DTT) conditions, and analyzed for the content of \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR by immunoblotting with C- and N-terminus oriented antibodies.RESULTS: Significant down-regulation of \xce\xb4-OR form exhibiting Mw \xe2\x89\x88 60 kDa was detected in PNS prepared from both (+M10) and (+M10/-M20) rats. However, the total immunoblot signals of \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR, respectively, were unchanged. Plasma membrane marker Na, K-ATPase, actin and GAPDH were unaffected by morphine in both types of PNS. Membrane-domain marker caveolin-1 and cholesterol level increased in (+M10) rats and this increase was reversed back to control level in (+M10/-M20) rats.CONCLUSIONS: In FBC, prolonged exposure of rats to morphine results in minor (\xce\xb4-OR) or no change (\xce\xbc- and \xce\xba-OR) of opioid receptor content. The reversible increases of caveolin-1 and cholesterol levels suggest participation of membrane domains in compensatory responses during opioid withdrawal.GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Analysis of reversibility of morphine effect on mammalian brain. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional#Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel#Male#Morphine#Prosencephalon#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Receptors, Opioid, delta#Receptors, Opioid, kappa#Receptors, Opioid, mu#Substance Withdrawal Syndrome'
b"Three-dimensional (3D-) body scanning of children and adolescents allows the detailed study of physiological development in terms of anthropometrical alterations which potentially provide early onset markers for obesity. Here, we present a systematic analysis of body scanning data of 2,700 urban children and adolescents in the age range between 5 and 18 years with the special aim to stratify the participants into distinct body shape types and to describe their change upon development. In a first step, we extracted a set of eight representative meta-measures from the data. Each of them collects a related group of anthropometrical features and changes specifically upon aging. In a second step we defined seven body types by clustering the meta-measures of all participants. These body types describe the body shapes in terms of three weight (lower, normal and overweight) and three age (young, medium and older) categories. For younger children (age of 5-10 years) we found a common 'early childhood body shape' which splits into three weight-dependent types for older children, with one or two years delay for boys. Our study shows that the concept of body types provides a reliable option for the anthropometric characterization of developing and aging populations. labels: #Adolescent#Anthropometry#Child#Child, Preschool#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Urban Population"
b'Calpains are a family of intracellular proteases defined by a conserved protease domain. In the marine mollusk Aplysia californica, calpains are important for the induction of long-term synaptic plasticity and memory, at least in part by cleaving protein kinase Cs (PKCs) into constitutively active kinases, termed protein kinase Ms (PKMs). We identify 14 genes encoding calpains in Aplysia using bioinformatics, including at least one member of each of the four major calpain families into which metazoan calpains are generally classified, as well as additional truncated and atypical calpains. Six classical calpains containing a penta-EF-hand (PEF) domain are present in Aplysia. Phylogenetic analysis determined that these six calpains come from three separate classical calpain families. One of the classical calpains in Aplysia, AplCCal1, has been implicated in plasticity. We identify three splice cassettes and an alternative transcriptional start site in AplCCal1. We characterize several of the possible isoforms of AplCCal1 in vitro, and demonstrate that AplCCal1 can cleave PKCs into PKMs in a calcium-dependent manner in vitro. We also find that AplCCal1 has a novel mechanism of auto-inactivation through N-terminal cleavage that is modulated through its alternative transcriptional start site. labels: #Animals#Aplysia#Calpain#Neuronal Plasticity#Phylogeny#Transcription, Genetic'
b'BACKGROUND: There is widespread evidence that statistical methods play an important role in original research articles, especially in medical research. The evaluation of statistical methods and reporting in journals suffers from a lack of standardized methods for assessing the use of statistics. The objective of this study was to develop and evaluate an instrument to assess the statistical intensity in research articles in a standardized way.METHODS: A checklist-type measure scale was developed by selecting and refining items from previous reports about the statistical contents of medical journal articles and from published guidelines for statistical reporting. A total of 840 original medical research articles that were published between 2007-2015 in 16 journals were evaluated to test the scoring instrument. The total sum of all items was used to assess the intensity between sub-fields and journals. Inter-rater agreement was examined using a random sample of 40 articles. Four raters read and evaluated the selected articles using the developed instrument.RESULTS: The scale consisted of 66 items. The total summary score adequately discriminated between research articles according to their study design characteristics. The new instrument could also discriminate between journals according to their statistical intensity. The inter-observer agreement measured by the ICC was 0.88 between all four raters. Individual item analysis showed very high agreement between the rater pairs, the percentage agreement ranged from 91.7% to 95.2%.CONCLUSIONS: A reliable and applicable instrument for evaluating the statistical intensity in research papers was developed. It is a helpful tool for comparing the statistical intensity between sub-fields and journals. The novel instrument may be applied in manuscript peer review to identify papers in need of additional statistical review. labels: #Biomedical Research#Observer Variation#Publishing'
b'Pyridoxine dependent epilepsy (PDE) is caused by likely pathogenic variants in ALDH7A1 (PDE-ALDH7A1) and inherited autosomal recessively. Neurotoxic alpha-amino adipic semialdehyde (alpha-AASA), piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid accumulate in body fluids. Neonatal or infantile onset seizures refractory to anti-epileptic medications are clinical features. Treatment with pyridoxine, arginine and lysine-restricted diet does not normalize neurodevelopmental outcome or accumulation of neurotoxic metabolites. There is no animal model for high throughput drug screening. For this reason, we developed and characterized the first knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish model using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. Zebrafish aldh7a1 mutants were generated by using a vector free method of CRISPR-Cas9 mutagenesis. Genotype analysis of aldh7a1 knock-out zebrafish was performed by high resolution melt analysis, direct sequencing and QIAxcel system. Electroencephalogram was performed. Alpha-AASA, piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid, were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Our knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish has homozygous 5 base pair (bp) mutation in ALDH7A1. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos have spontaneous rapid increase in locomotion and a rapid circling swim behavior earliest 8-day post fertilization (dpf). Electroencephalogram revealed large amplitude spike discharges compared to wild type. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos have elevated alpha-AASA, piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid compared to wild type embryos at 3 dpf. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos showed no aldh7a1 protein by western blot compared to wild type. Our knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish is a well characterized model for large-scale drug screening using behavioral and biochemical features and accurately recapitulates the human PDE-ALDH7A1 disease. labels: #Action Potentials#Aldehyde Dehydrogenase#Animals#Behavior, Animal#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Electroencephalography#Epilepsy#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Pyridoxine#Zebrafish'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine whether population-specific normative data should be employed when screening neurocognitive functioning as part of physician fitness for duty evaluations. If so, to provide such norms based on the evidence currently available.METHODS: A comparison of published data from four sources was analyzed. Data from the two physician samples were then entered into a meta-analysis to obtain full information estimates and generate provisional norms for physicians.RESULTS: Two-way analysis of variance (Study x Index) revealed a significant main effect and an interaction. Results indicate differences in mean levels of performance and standard deviation for physicians.CONCLUSIONS: Reliance on general population normative data results in under-identification of potential neuropsychological difficulties. Population specific normative data are needed to effectively evaluate practicing physicians. labels: #Humans#Neuropsychological Tests#Physicians#Professional Impairment'
b'INTRODUCTION: Many people at high risk for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), e.g., men who have sex with men (MSM), are not optimally reached by current sexual health care systems with testing. To facilitate testing by home-based sampling or sampling in outreach setting we evaluated dried blood spots (DBS), a method for self-collected blood sampling for serological screening of HIV, hepatitis B (HBV) and syphilis. The aims of this study were to assess the acceptability and feasibility of self-collected DBS and to compare the test results for screening of HIV, HBV and syphilis from DBS with blood drawn by venous puncture.METHODS: DBS were collected from men who have sex with men (MSM), visiting the STI clinic of the public health service South Limburg (n = 183) and HIV positive and HBV positive patients (n = 34), visiting the outpatient clinics of the Maastricht University Medical Centre in the period January 2012-April 2015. The 93 first participating MSM visiting the STI clinic were asked to fill in a questionnaire about the feasibility and acceptability about self-collection of DBS in a setting without going to a health care facility and were asked to collect the DBS themselves. Serological screening tests for HIV (HIV combi PT, Roche), HBV (HBsAg, Roche) and syphilis (Treponema pallidum Ig, Biokit 3.0) were performed on DBS and on blood drawn by venous puncture, which was routinely taken for screening.RESULTS: In total 217 participants were included in the study with a median age of 40 years (range between 17-80). Of MSM 84% agreed that it was clear and easy to do the finger-prick, while 53% agreed that it was clear and easy to apply the blood onto the DBS card. Also, 80% of MSM would use the bloodspot test again. In 91% (198) of DBS, sufficient material was collected to perform the three tests. No difference was observed in DBS quality between self-collected DBS and health care worker collected DBS. For HIV (n = 195 DBS-serum pairs) sensitivity and specificity were 100%. For HBV the sensitivity for HBsAg (n = 202) was 90% and specificity was 99%. For syphilis (n = 191) the sensitivity of the DBS was 93% with a specificity of 99%. Analysis of the DBS of HIV positive participants (n = 38) did show similar test performance for HBV and syphilis as in HIV negatives.CONCLUSION: DBS is an acceptable self-sampling method for MSM, as there was no difference in DBS quality in self-collected and health care worker collected DBS. Test performance, i.e., its high sensitivity (>90%) and specificity (>99%) measures show that DBS is a valid alternative for venous blood puncture. Especially when DBS is combined with home-collected sampling for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, complete STI screening can be done in outreach setting and/or home-collected sampling in MSM. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#HIV Infections#Hepatitis B#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Self Care#Specimen Handling#Syphilis#Young Adult'
b'Tropical wetlands are thought to be the most important source of interannual variability in atmospheric methane (CH4) concentrations, yet sparse data prevents them from being incorporated into Earth system models. This problem is particularly pronounced in the neotropics where bottom-up models based on water table depth are incongruent with top-down inversion models suggesting unaccounted sinks or sources of CH4. The newly documented vast areas of peatlands in the Amazon basin may account for an important unrecognized CH4 source, but the hydrologic and biogeochemical controls of CH4 dynamics from these systems remain poorly understood. We studied three zones of a peatland in Madre de Dios, Peru, to test whether CH4 emissions and pore water concentrations varied with vegetation community, soil chemistry and proximity to groundwater sources. We found that the open-canopy herbaceous zone emitted roughly one-third as much CH4 as the Mauritia flexuosa palm-dominated areas (4.7 \xc2\xb1 0.9 and 14.0 \xc2\xb1 2.4 mg CH4 m-2 h-1, respectively). Emissions decreased with distance from groundwater discharge across the three sampling sites, and tracked changes in soil carbon chemistry, especially increased soil phenolics. Based on all available data, we calculate that neotropical peatlands contribute emissions of 43 \xc2\xb1 11.9 Tg CH4 y-1, however this estimate is subject to geographic bias and will need revision once additional studies are published. labels: #Methane#Tropical Climate#Wetlands'
b'The polled phenotype of cattle is increasingly becoming favourable mainly because of the enhanced emphasis on animal welfare, for which the causative mutations have been reported during the past years. The Shuxuan cattle are a new synthetic breed by crossing the indigenous cattle with both Simmental and Holstein semen in Sichuan of Southwest China, in which about 15% of polled individuals have newly emerged. Because official record about POLLED genotypes for the historically imported sires is unavailable, we therefore genotyped the proposed POLLED variants of P202ID, P80kbID and P219ID among 48 polled and 16 horned Shuxuan cattle. It was first revealed that all three candidate mutations have been simultaneously introgressed into Shuxuan cattle, whereas the P202ID mutation is dominant. Furthermore, one polled animal still remains to carry none of the three candidate mutations, which suggests that further mutation(s) would also exist. Additionally, we sequenced mitochondrial DNA and found that Shuxuan cattle are composed of two matrilineal origins of Bos taurus (65.6%) and B. indicus (34.4%); and there is no origin-biased distribution of polled phenotype. In conclusion, our study first supports the recently reported novel candidate mutation of P219ID and detects simultaneous presences of all three known POLLED mutations within a cattle breed. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#Cattle#China#Mutation'
b'Gene flow dynamics of common ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) is affected by several human activities in Central Europe, including habitat fragmentation, agroforestry expansion, controlled and uncontrolled transfer of reproductive material, and a recently introduced emerging infectious disease, ash dieback, caused by Hymenoscyphus fraxineus. Habitat fragmentation may alter genetic connectivity and effective population size, leading to loss of genetic diversity and increased inbreeding in ash populations. Gene flow from cultivated trees in landscapes close to their native counterparts may also influence the adaptability of future generations. The devastating effects of ash dieback have already been observed in both natural and managed populations in continental Europe. However, potential long-term effects of genetic bottlenecks depend on gene flow across fragmented landscapes. For this reason, we studied the genetic connectivity of ash trees in an isolated forest patch of a fragmented landscape in R\xc3\xb6senbeck, Germany. We applied two approaches to parentage analysis to estimate gene flow patterns at the study site. We specifically investigated the presence of background pollination at the landscape level and the degree of genetic isolation between native and cultivated trees. Local meteorological data was utilized to understand the effect of wind on the pollen and seed dispersal patterns. Gender information of the adult trees was considered for calculating the dispersal distances. We found that the majority of the studied seeds (55-64%) and seedlings (75-98%) in the forest patch were fathered and mothered by the trees within the same patch. However, we determined a considerable amount of pollen flow (26-45%) from outside of the study site, representing background pollination at the landscape level. Limited pollen flow was observed from neighbouring cultivated trees (2%). Both pollen and seeds were dispersed in all directions in accordance with the local wind directions. Whereas there was no positive correlation between pollen dispersal distance and wind speed, the correlation between seed dispersal distance and wind speed was significant (0.71, p<0.001), indicating that strong wind favours long-distance dispersal of ash seeds. Finally, we discussed the implications of establishing gene conservation stands and the use of enrichment planting in the face of ash dieback. labels: #DNA, Plant#Ecosystem#Fraxinus#Gene Flow#Genes, Plant#Microsatellite Repeats#Pollen#Pollination#Wind'
b'IMPORTANCE: Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is characterised by a constellation of symptoms diagnosed with a number of different polythetic criteria. Heterogeneity across these diagnostic criteria is likely to be confounding research into the as-yet-unknown pathophysiology underlying this stigmatised and debilitating condition and may diagnose a disease spectrum with significant implications for clinical management. No studies to date have objectively investigated this possibility using a validated measure of CFS symptoms-the DePaul Symptom Questionnaire (DSQ).OBJECTIVE: To examine whether current CFS diagnostic criteria are identifying different disease phenotypes using the DSQ.DESIGN: Case control study.SETTING: Clinical Research Facility of the Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.PARTICIPANTS: 49 CFS subjects and ten matched, sedentary community controls, excluded for co-morbid depression.MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Self-reported autonomic and cognitive features were assessed with the Composite Autonomic Symptom Score (COMPASS) and Cognitive Failures Questionnaire (COGFAIL) respectively. Objective autonomic cardiovascular parameters were examined using the Task Force\xc2\xae Monitor and a battery of neuropsychological tests administered for objective cognitive assessment.RESULTS: Self-reported autonomic and cognitive symptoms were significantly greater in CFS subjects compared to controls. There were no statistically significant differences in objective autonomic measures between CFS and controls. There were clinically significant differences between DSQ subgroups on objective autonomic testing. Visuospatial memory, verbal memory and psychomotor speed were significantly different between DSQ subgroups.CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The finding of no significant differences in objective autonomic testing between CFS and control subjects may reflect the inclusion of sedentary controls or exclusion for co-morbid depression. Consistent exclusion criteria would enable better delineation of these two conditions and their presenting symptoms. Findings across CFS subgroups suggest subjects have a different disease burden on subjective and objective measures of function, autonomic parameters and cognitive impairment when categorised using the DSQ. Different CFS criteria may at best be diagnosing a spectrum of disease severities and at worst different CFS phenotypes or even different diseases. This complicates research and disease management and may contribute to the significant stigma associated with the condition. labels: #Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"Heat stress is one of the most detrimental confrontations in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, causing considerable economic losses in poultry production. Propolis, a resinous product of worker honeybees, possesses several biological activities that could be used to alleviate the deleterious effects of high environmental temperature on poultry production. The current study was aimed at evaluating the effects of propolis supplementation to Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) diets on the production performance, intestinal histomorphology, relative physiological and immunological parameters, and selected gene expression under heat stress conditions. Three hundred one-day-old Japanese quail chicks were randomly distributed into 20 wired-cages. At 28 d of age, the birds were divided into 2 temperature treatment groups; a normal at 24\xc2\xb0C (C group) and a heat stress at 35\xc2\xb0C (HS group). The birds in each group were further assigned to 2 subgroups; one of them was fed on a basal diet without propolis supplementation (-Pr subgroup) while the other was supplemented with propolis (+Pr subgroup). Production performance including body weight gain, feed intake and feed conversion ratio were measured. The intestinal histomorphological measurements were also performed for all treatment groups. Relative physiological parameters including body temperature, corticosterone hormone level, malondialdehyde (MDA) and free triiodothyronine hormone (fT3), as well as the relative immunological parameters including the total white blood cells count (TWBC's), heterophil/lymphocyte (H/L) ratio and lymphocyte proliferation index, were also measured. Furthermore, the mRNA expression for toll like receptor 5 (TLR5), cysteine-aspartic protease-6 (CASP6) and heat shock proteins 70 and 90 (Hsp70 and Hsp90) genes was quantified in this study. The quail production performance was significantly (P<0.05) impaired by HS treatment, while Pr treatment significantly improved the quail production performance. The villus width and area were significantly (P<0.05) lower in the HS compared to the C group, while Pr treatment significantly increased crypts depth of quail. A negative impact of HS treatment was observed on the physiological status of quail; however, propolis significantly alleviated this negative effect. Moreover, quail of the HS group expressed lower immunological parameters than C group, while propolis enhanced the immune status of the quail. The relative mRNA expression of TLR5 gene was down-regulated by HS treatment while it was up-regulated by the Pr treatment. Furthermore, the positive effects of propolis in HS-quail were evidenced by normalizing the high expressions of CASP6 and Hsp70 genes when compared to the C group. Based on these results, the addition of propolis to quail diets as a potential nutritional strategy in order to improve their performance, especially under heat stress conditions, is recommended. labels: #Animals#Coturnix#Heat Stress Disorders#Propolis"
b'We explored the utility of neural stem cells (NSCs) as an in vitro model for evaluating preclinical therapeutics in succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase-deficient (SSADHD) mice. NSCs were obtained from aldh5a1+/+ and aldh5a1-/- mice (aldh5a1 = aldehyde dehydrogenase 5a1 = SSADH). Multiple parameters were evaluated including: (1) production of GHB (\xce\xb3-hydroxybutyrate), the biochemical hallmark of SSADHD; (2) rescue from cell death with the dual mTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin) inhibitor, XL-765, an agent previously shown to rescue aldh5a1-/- mice from premature lethality; (3) mitochondrial number, total reactive oxygen species, and mitochondrial superoxide production, all previously documented as abnormal in aldh5a1-/- mice; (4) total ATP levels and ATP consumption; and (5) selected gene expression profiles associated with epilepsy, a prominent feature in both experimental and human SSADHD. Patterns of dysfunction were observed in all of these parameters and mirrored earlier findings in aldh5a1-/- mice. Patterns of dysregulated gene expression between hypothalamus and NSCs centered on ion channels, GABAergic receptors, and inflammation, suggesting novel pathomechanisms as well as a developmental ontogeny for gene expression potentially associated with the murine epileptic phenotype. The NSC model of SSADHD will be valuable in providing a first-tier screen for centrally-acting therapeutics and prioritizing therapeutic concepts of preclinical animal studies applicable to SSADHD. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Amino Acid Metabolism, Inborn Errors#Animals#Brain#Culture Media#Developmental Disabilities#Disease Models, Animal#Epilepsy#In Vitro Techniques#Mice#Neural Stem Cells#Oxidative Stress#Succinate-Semialdehyde Dehydrogenase'
b'Across scientific disciplines, thresholded pairwise measures of statistical dependence between time series are taken as proxies for the interactions between the dynamical units of a network. Yet such correlation measures often fail to reflect the underlying physical interactions accurately. Here we systematically study the problem of reconstructing direct physical interaction networks from thresholding correlations. We explicate how local common cause and relay structures, heterogeneous in-degrees and non-local structural properties of the network generally hinder reconstructibility. However, in the limit of weak coupling strengths we prove that stationary systems with dynamics close to a given operating point transition to universal reconstructiblity across all network topologies. labels: #Algorithms#Computer Simulation#Models, Neurological#Nonlinear Dynamics'
b'Highly structured RNA derived from viral genomes is a key cellular indicator of viral infection. In response, cells produce the interferon inducible RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) that, when bound to viral dsRNA, phosphorylates eukaryotic initiation factor 2\xce\xb1 and attenuates viral protein translation. Adenovirus can evade this line of defence through transcription of a non-coding RNA, VAI, an inhibitor of PKR. VAI consists of three base-paired regions that meet at a three-way junction; an apical stem responsible for the interaction with PKR, a central stem required for inhibition, and a terminal stem. Recent studies have highlighted the potential importance of the tertiary structure of the three-way junction to PKR inhibition by enabling interaction between regions of the central and terminal stems. To further investigate the role of the three-way junction, we characterized the binding affinity and inhibitory potential of central stem mutants designed to introduce subtle alterations. These results were then correlated with small-angle X-ray scattering solution studies and computational tertiary structural models. Our results demonstrate that while mutations to the central stem have no observable effect on binding affinity to PKR, mutations that appear to disrupt the structure of the three-way junction prevent inhibition of PKR. Therefore, we propose that instead of simply sequestering PKR, a specific structural conformation of the PKR-VAI complex may be required for inhibition. labels: #Mutation#RNA, Viral#Scattering, Radiation#Transcription, Genetic#eIF-2 Kinase'
b'The Late Pleistocene Shanidar 1 older adult male Neandertal is known for the crushing fracture of his left orbit with a probable reduction in vision, the loss of his right forearm and hand, and evidence of an abnormal gait, as well as probable diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis. He also exhibits advanced external auditory exostoses in his left auditory meatus and larger ones with complete bridging across the porus in the right meatus (both Grade 3). These growths indicate at least unilateral conductive hearing (CHL) loss, a serious sensory deprivation for a Pleistocene hunter-gatherer. This condition joins the meatal atresia of the Middle Pleistocene Atapuerca-SH Cr.4 in providing evidence of survival with conductive hearing loss (and hence serious sensory deprivation) among these Pleistocene humans. The presence of CHL in these fossils thereby reinforces the paleobiological and archeological evidence for supporting social matrices among these Pleistocene foraging peoples. labels: #Animals#Ear, External#Exostoses#Fossils#Hearing Loss, Conductive#Hominidae#Neanderthals'
b'Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a lipid and protein phosphatase that antagonizes signaling by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT signaling pathway. The PTEN gene is a major tumor suppressor, with mutations of this gene occurring frequently in tumors of humans and mice. We have now developed mutant medaka deficient in PTEN with the use of transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALEN) technology. Medaka possesses two pten genes, ptena and ptenb, similar to zebrafish. We established 16 ptena mutant lines and two ptenb mutant lines. Homozygous single pten mutants were found to be viable and fertile. In contrast, pten double-knockout (dko) embryos manifested severe abnormalities in vasculogenesis, eye size, and tail development at 72 hours post fertilization(hpf) and died before hatching. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the ratio of phosphorylated to total forms of AKT (pAKT/AKT) in pten dko embryos was four times that in wild-type embryos, indicative of up-regulation of signaling by the PI3K-AKT pathway. Treatment of pten dko embryos with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 reduced the pAKT/AKT ratio by about one-half and partially rescued the defect in vasculogenesis. Additional inhibitors of the PI3K-AKT pathway, including rapamycin and N-\xce\xb1-tosyl-L-phenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone, also partially restored vasculogenesis in the dko embryos. Our model system thus allows pten dko embryos to be readily distinguished from wild-type embryos at an early stage of development and is suitable for the screening of drugs able to compensate for PTEN deficiency. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Oryzias#PTEN Phosphohydrolase#Transcription Activator-Like Effector Nucleases'
b'The transcription factor NR4A1 has emerged as a pivotal regulator of the inflammatory response and immune homeostasis. Although contribution of NR4A1 in the innate immune response has been demonstrated, its role in host defense against viral infection remains to be investigated. In the present study, we show that administration of cytosporone B (Csn-B), a specific agonist of NR4A1, to mice infected with influenza virus (IAV) reduces lung viral loads and improves pulmonary function. Our results demonstrate that administration of Csn-B to naive mice leads to a modest production of type 1 IFN. However, in IAV-infected mice, such production of IFNs is markedly increased following treatment with Csn-B. Our study also reveals that alveolar macrophages (AMs) appear to have a significant role in Csn-B effects, since selective depletion of AMs with clodronate liposome correlates with a marked reduction of IFN production, viral clearance and morbidity in IAV-infected mice. Furthermore, when reemergence of AMs is observed following clodronate liposome administration, an increased production of IFNs was detected in bronchoalveolar fluids of IAV-infected mice treated with Csn-B, supporting the contribution of AMs in Csn-B effects. While treatment of mice with Csn-B induces phosphorylation of transcriptional factors IRF3 and IRF7, the latter appears to be less indispensable since effects of Csn-B treatment on the synthesis of IFNs were slightly affected in IAV-infected mice lacking functional IRF7. Together, our results highlight the capacity of Csn-B and consequently of NR4A1 transcription factor in controlling IAV infection. labels: #Animals#Female#Humans#Influenza, Human#Interferon Type I#Lung#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 4, Group A, Member 1#Phenylacetates#Respiratory Function Tests#Viral Load'
b'Gibberellin wastewater cannot be directly discharged without treatment due to its high concentrations of sulfate and organic compounds and strong acidity. Therefore, multi-stage anaerobic bioreactor + micro-aerobic+ anoxic/aeration (A/O) + biological contact oxidation combined processes are used to treat gibberellin wastewater. However, knowledge of the treatment effects of the A/O process and bacterial community structure in the aeration tank reactors of such systems is sparse. Therefore, this study was conducted to investigate the treatment effects and operation of the A/O process on gibberellin wastewater, as well as changes in the bacterial community structure of activated sludge in the aeration tank during treatment. Moreover, removal was examined based on evaluation of effluent after A/O treatment. Although influent chemical oxygen demand (COD), NH3-N and total phosphorus (TP) fluctuated, effluent COD, NH3-N and TP remained stable. Moreover, average COD, NH3-N and TP removal efficiency were 68.41%, 93.67% and 45.82%, respectively, during the A/O process. At the phylum level, Proteobacteria was the dominant phylum in all samples, followed by Chloroflexi, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria. Proteobacteria played an important role in the removal of organic matter. Chloroflexi was found to be responsible for the degradation of carbohydrates and Bacteroidetes also had been found to be responsible for the degradation of complex organic matters. Actinobacteria are able to degrade a variety of environmental chemicals. Additionally, Anaerolineaceae_uncultured was the major genus in samples collected on May 25, 2015, while Novosphingobium and Nitrospira were dominant in most samples. Nitrosomonas are regarded as the dominant ammonia-oxidizing bacteria, while Nitrospira are the main nitrite-oxidizing bacteria. Bacterial community structure varied considerably with time, and a partial Mantel test showed a highly significant positive correlation between bacterial community structure and DO. The bacterial community structure was also positively correlated with temperature and SO42-. labels: #Bacteria#Bioreactors#Gibberellins#Oxygen#Waste Water#Water Microbiology'
b"Boswellia sacra, a frankincense producing endemic tree, has been well known for its cultural, religious and economic values. However, the tree has been least explored for the associated microsymbiota in the rhizosphere. The current study elucidates the fungal and bacterial communities of the rhizospheric regions of the wild and cultivated B. sacra tree populations through next generation sequencing. The sequence analysis showed the existence of 1006\xc2\xb18.9 and 60.6\xc2\xb13.1 operational taxonomic unit (OTUs) for bacterial and fungal communities respectively. In fungal communities, five major phyla were found with significantly higher abundance of Ascomycota (60.3%) in wild population and Basidiomycota (52%) in cultivated tree rhizospheres. Among bacterial communities, 31 major phyla were found, with significant distribution of Actinobacteria in wild tree rhizospheres, whereas Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria were highly abundant in cultivated trees. The diversity and abundance of microbiome varied significantly depending upon soil characteristics of the three different populations. In addition, significantly higher glucosidases, cellulases and indole-3-acetic acid were found in cultivated tree's rhizospheres as compared to wild tree populations. for these plants to survive the harsh arid-land environmental conditions. The current study is a first comprehensive work and advances our knowledge about the core fungal and bacterial microbial microbiome associated with this economically important tree. labels: #Bacteria#Boswellia#Frankincense#Fungi#Rhizosphere"
b'Ex vivo 2-photon fluorescence microscopy (2PFM) with optical clearing enables vascular imaging deep into tissue. However, optical clearing may also produce spherical aberrations if the objective lens is not index-matched to the clearing material, while the perfusion, clearing, and fixation procedure may alter vascular morphology. We compared in vivo and ex vivo 2PFM in mice, focusing on apparent differences in microvascular signal and morphology. Following in vivo imaging, the mice (four total) were perfused with a fluorescent gel and their brains fructose-cleared. The brain regions imaged in vivo were imaged ex vivo. Vessels were segmented in both images using an automated tracing algorithm that accounts for the spatially varying PSF in the ex vivo images. This spatial variance is induced by spherical aberrations caused by imaging fructose-cleared tissue with a water-immersion objective. Alignment of the ex vivo image to the in vivo image through a non-linear warping algorithm enabled comparison of apparent vessel diameter, as well as differences in signal. Shrinkage varied as a function of diameter, with capillaries rendered smaller ex vivo by 13%, while penetrating vessels shrunk by 34%. The pial vasculature attenuated in vivo microvascular signal by 40% 300 \xce\xbcm below the tissue surface, but this effect was absent ex vivo. On the whole, ex vivo imaging was found to be valuable for studying deep cortical vasculature. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Brain#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Mice'
b'The harbour porpoise is the only cetacean species native to German waters. Since human pressures are suggested to shorten their reproductive lifespan, basic knowledge on reproduction is strongly required. One parameter is the onset of sexual maturity in female harbour porpoises. Therefore, we investigated the first signs of sexual maturity for a period of almost two decades (1990-2016). Ovaries from 111 female harbour porpoises from the German North Sea and Baltic Sea were examined for the presence and morphological structure of follicles, corpora lutea and corpora albicantia. Based on the ovarian characteristics we performed the first model-based estimation of age at sexual maturity for harbour porpoises from German waters. Additionally, we produced a demographical age structure based on all female strandings and bycatches from German coasts. Our results showed that corpora lutea and corpora albicantia as signs of former ovulation could be found in individuals at an age of 4.95 (\xc2\xb1 0.6) years. No significant differences between specimens from the North Sea and Baltic Sea were detected. However, the average age at death differed significantly with 5.70 (\xc2\xb1 0.27) years for North Sea animals and 3.67 (\xc2\xb1 0.30) years for those in the Baltic Sea. Growing evidence exists that the shortened lifespan of Baltic Sea harbour porpoises is linked to an anthropogenically influenced environment with rising bycatch mortalities due to local gillnet fisheries. Thus, our findings support the idea of local management plans based on a model-based detection of age at sexual maturity and considering the anthropogenic impacts on the population for effective protection of harbour porpoises and the North Sea and Baltic Sea. labels: #Animals#Baltic States#Female#North Sea#Phocoena#Reproduction'
b'OBJECTIVES: Odontogenic tumors (OT) represent a specific pathological category that includes some lesions with unpredictable biological behavior. Although most of these lesions are benign, some, such as the ameloblastoma, exhibit local aggressiveness and high recurrence rates. The most common types of ameloblastoma are the solid/multicystic (SA) and the unicystic ameloblastoma (UA); the latter considered a much less aggressive entity as compared to the SA. The microRNA system regulates the expression of many human genes while its deregulation has been associated with neoplastic development. The aim of the current study was to determine the expression profiles of microRNAs present in the two most common types of ameloblastomas.MATERIAL & METHODS: MicroRNA expression profiles were assessed using TaqMan\xc2\xae Low Density Arrays (TLDAs) in 24 samples (8 SA, 8 UA and 8 control samples). The findings were validated using quantitative RTqPCR in an independent cohort of 19 SA, 8 UA and 19 dentigerous cysts as controls.RESULTS: We identified 40 microRNAs differentially regulated in ameloblastomas, which are related to neoplastic development and differentiation, and with the osteogenic process. Further validation of the top ranked microRNAs revealed significant differences in the expression of 6 of them in relation to UA, 7 in relation to SA and 1 (miR-489) that was related to both types.CONCLUSION: We identified a new microRNA signature for the ameloblastoma and for its main types, which may be useful to better understand the etiopathogenesis of this neoplasm. In addition, we identified a microRNA (miR-489) that is suggestive of differentiating among solid from unicystic ameloblastoma. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Ameloblastoma#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Jaw Neoplasms#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'Vitis vinifera cv. Koshu is an indigenous grape cultivar that has been cultivated for more than a thousand years in Japan and one of the most important cultivars in white winemaking. To improve Koshu wine quality, it is necessary to identify the metabolites in Koshu berry. We conducted a comprehensive and comparative lipidome analysis of Koshu and Pinot Noir berries cultivated in the same location in Japan using GC-MS/MS for fatty acids and LC-MS for glycerolipids and glycerophospholipids. Koshu skins and juices contained 22 and 19 fatty acids, respectively, whereas 23 and 20 fatty acids were detected in Pinot Noir skins and juices. C22:6n3 and C24:0 contents in Koshu skins were two and three times higher than those in Pinot Noir skins. C24:0 content in Koshu juices was also higher than that in Pinot Noir juices. Forty-nine lipid components (six digalactosyldiacylglycerols, one monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, 10 phosphatidylcholines, 12 phosphatidylethanolamines, and 20 triglycerides) were detected in Pinot Noir and Koshu skins. Strong peaks were observed for MGDG 36:6, DGDG 36:6, PC 34:2, PC 36:5, TG 54:6, TG 54:7, and TG 54:8 in Koshu skins. The contents of 36 of the 49 lipid components were significantly higher in Pinot Noir skins than Koshu skins. Pinot Noir skins contained more lipids whose alkyl chains have more than 18 carbons than Koshu skins. Further analysis of both lipid profiles revealed that the number of double bonds in a fatty acid molecule in Pinot Noir skins and juices was significantly larger than that in Koshu skins and juices. A strong relationship exists between the heat requirement of grapevine cultivars and the level of fatty acid desaturation. C18-fatty acids were the major components in Koshu and Pinot Noir berries. The expression levels of C18-fatty acid desaturases regulated the accumulation of C18-unsaturated fatty acids in berry skins. The loss of C18:3 in Koshu berries at the end of ripening was observed. Koshu might effectively convert C18:3 into (Z)-hex-3-enal for the production of C6-aroma compounds. These findings by the lipidome analysis are expected to contribute to the improvement of Koshu wine aroma and breeding strategies of cold-tolerant Koshu grapevines. labels: #Fatty Acids#Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry#Lipid Metabolism#Reproducibility of Results#Species Specificity#Tandem Mass Spectrometry#Vitis'
b'BACKGROUND: Mortality rates in females who survived acute myocardial infarction (AMI) exceed those in males. Differences between sexes in age, cardiovascular risk factors and revascularization therapy have been proposed as possible reasons.OBJECTIVE: To select sets of female and male patients comparable in respect of relevant risk factors in order to compare the sex-specific risk in a systematic manner.METHODS: Data of the ISAR-RISK and ART studies were investigated. Patients were enrolled between 1996 and 2005 and suffered from AMI within 4 weeks prior to enrolment. Patients of each sex were selected with 1:1 equivalent age, previous AMI history, sinus-rhythm presence, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking status, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and revascularization therapy. Survival times were compared between sex groups in the whole study cohort and in the matched cohort.RESULTS: Of 3840 consecutive AMI survivors, 994 (25.9%) were females and 2846 (74.1%) were males. Females were older and suffered more frequently from hypertension and diabetes mellitus. In the whole cohort, females showed an increased mortality with a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.54 compared to males (p<0.0001). The matched cohort comprised 802 patients of each sex and revealed a trend towards poorer survival in females (HR for female sex 1.14; p = 0.359). However, significant mortality differences with a higher risk in matched females was observed during the first year after AMI (HR = 1.61; p = 0.045) but not during the subsequent years.CONCLUSION: Matched sub-groups of post-AMI patients showed a comparable long-term mortality. However, a female excess mortality remained during first year after AMI and cannot be explained by differences in age, cardiovascular risk factors, and modes of acute treatment. Other causal factors, including clinical as well as psychological and social aspects, need to be considered. Female post-AMI patients should be followed more actively particularly during the first year after AMI. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Prospective Studies#Sex Factors'
b'The natural variant C491T (rs1800088) in ADRB2 gene substitutes Threonine to Isoleucine at 164th position in \xce\xb22AR and results in receptor sequestration and altered binding of agonists. Present investigation pursues to identify the effect of T164I variation on function and structure of \xce\xb22AR through systematic computational approaches. The study, in addition, addresses altered binding of salbutamol in T164I variant through molecular dynamic simulations. Methods involving changes in free energy, solvent accessibility surface area, root mean square deviations and analysis of binding cavity revealed structural perturbations in receptor to incur upon T164I substitution. For comprehensive understanding of receptor upon substitution, OPLS force field aided molecular dynamic simulations were performed for 10 ns. Simulations revealed massive structural departure for T164I \xce\xb22AR variant from the native state along with considerably higher root mean square fluctuations of residues near the cavity. Affinity prediction by molecular docking showed two folds reduced affinity of salbutamol in T164I variant. To validate the credibility docking results, simulations for ligand-receptor complex were performed which demonstrated unstable salbutamol-T164I \xce\xb22AR complex formation. Further, analysis of interactions in course of simulations revealed reduced ligand-receptor interactions of salbutamol in T164I variant. Taken together, studies herein provide structural rationales for suboptimal binding of salbutamol in T164I variant through integrated molecular modeling approaches. labels: #Adrenergic beta-2 Receptor Agonists#Albuterol#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Protein Binding#Receptors, Adrenergic, beta-2'
b'Purpose: Retinal ganglion cells (RGC) can be categorized into roughly 30 distinct subtypes. How these subtypes develop is poorly understood, in part because few unique subtype markers have been characterized. We tested whether the Prdm16 transcription factor is expressed by RGCs as a class or within particular ganglion cell subtypes.Methods: Embryonic and mature retinal sections and flatmount preparations were examined by immunohistochemistry for Prdm16 and several other cell type-specific markers. To visualize the morphology of Prdm16+ cells, we utilized Thy1-YFP-H transgenic mice, where a small random population of RGCs expresses yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) throughout the cytoplasm.Results: Prdm16 was expressed in the retina starting late in embryogenesis. Prdm16+ cells coexpressed the RGC marker Brn3a. These cells were arranged in an evenly spaced pattern and accounted for 2% of all ganglion cells. Prdm16+ cells coexpressed parvalbumin, but not calretinin, melanopsin, Smi32, or CART. This combination of marker expression and morphology data from Thy1-YFP-H mice suggested that the Prdm16+ cells represented a single ganglion cell subtype. Prdm16 also marked vascular endothelial cells and mural cells of retinal arterioles.Conclusions: A single subtype of ganglion cell appears to be uniquely marked by Prdm16 expression. While the precise identity of these ganglion cells is unclear, they most resemble the G9 subtype described by V\xc3\xb6lgyi and colleagues in 2009. Future studies are needed to determine the function of these ganglion cells and whether Prdm16 regulates their development. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Biomarkers#DNA-Binding Proteins#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Luminescent Proteins#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Parvalbumins#Retina#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Transcription Factor Brn-3A#Transcription Factors'
b'Purpose: AMD is the leading cause of human vision loss after 65 years of age. Several mechanisms have been proposed: (1) age-related failure of the choroidal vasculature leads to loss of RPE; (2) RPE dysfunctions due to accumulation of phagocytized, but unreleased A2E (N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine); (3) zinc deficiency activation of calpain and caspase proteases, leading to cell death. The purpose of the present study is to compare activation of calpain and caspase in monkey RPE cells cultured under hypoxia or with A2E.Methods: Monkey primary RPE cells were cultured under hypoxic conditions in a Gaspak pouch or cultured with synthetic A2E. Immunoblotting was used to detect activation of calpain and caspase. Calpain inhibitor, SNJ-1945, and pan-caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-fmk, were used to confirm activation of the proteases.Results: (1) Hypoxia and A2E each decreased viability of RPE cells in a time-dependent manner. (2) Incubation under hypoxia alone induced activation of calpain, but not caspases. SNJ-1945 inhibited calpain activation, but z-VAD-fmk did not. (3) Incubation with A2E alone induced activation of calpain, caspase-9, and caspase-3. SNJ-1945 inhibited calpain activation. z-VAD-fmk inhibited caspase activation, suggesting no interaction between calpain and caspases.Conclusions: Hypoxia activated the calpain pathway, while A2E activated both calpain and caspase pathways in monkey RPE cells. Such knowledge may be utilized in the treatment of AMD if inhibitor drugs against calpain and/or caspase are used to prevent RPE dysfunction caused by hypoxia or A2E. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Calpain#Caspase Inhibitors#Caspases#Cell Hypoxia#Cell Survival#Cells, Cultured#Enzyme Inhibitors#Immunoblotting#Macaca mulatta#Microscopy, Phase-Contrast#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Retinoids'
b'Background: Inappropriate prescribing is a well-known clinical problem in nursing home residents, but few interventions have focused on reducing inappropriate medication use.Objective: To examine successful discontinuation of inappropriate medication use and to improve prescribing in nursing home residents.Design: Pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial, with clustering by elder care physicians and their wards. (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01876095).Setting: 59 Dutch nursing home wards for long-term care.Patients: Residents with a life expectancy greater than 4 weeks who consented to treatment with medication.Intervention: Multidisciplinary Multistep Medication Review (3MR) consisting of an assessment of the patient perspective, medical history, critical appraisal of medications, a meeting between the treating elder care physician and the pharmacist, and implementation of medication changes.Measurements: Successful discontinuation of use of at least 1 inappropriate drug (that is, without relapse or severe withdrawal symptoms) and clinical outcomes (neuropsychiatric symptoms, cognitive function, and quality of life) after 4 months of follow-up.Results: Nineteen elder care physicians (33 wards) performed the 3MR, and 16 elder care physicians (26 wards) followed standard procedures. A total of 426 nursing home residents (233 in the intervention group and 193 in the control group) were followed for an average of 144 days (SD, 21). In an analysis of all participants, use of at least 1 inappropriate medication was successfully discontinued for 91 (39.1%) residents in the intervention group versus 57 (29.5%) in the control group (adjusted relative risk, 1.37 [95% CI, 1.02 to 1.75]). Clinical outcomes did not deteriorate between baseline and follow-up.Limitations: The 3MR was done only once. Some withdrawal symptoms or relapses may have been missed.Conclusion: The 3MR is effective in discontinuing inappropriate medication use in frail nursing home residents without a decline in their well-being.Primary Funding Source: Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development. labels: #Aged#Drug Utilization Review#Follow-Up Studies#Homes for the Aged#Humans#Inappropriate Prescribing#Nursing Homes#Polypharmacy#Quality of Life'
b"Importance: Dissatisfaction with medical malpractice litigation has stimulated interest by health care organizations in developing alternatives to meet patients' needs after medical injury. In communication-and-resolution programs (CRPs), hospitals and liability insurers communicate with patients about adverse events, use investigation findings to improve patient safety, and offer compensation when substandard care caused harm. Despite increasing interest in this approach, little is known about patients' and family members' experiences with CRPs.Objective: To explore the experiences of patients and family members with medical injuries and CRPs to understand different aspects of institutional responses to injury that promoted and impeded reconciliation.Design, Setting, and Participants: From January 6 through June 30, 2016, semistructured interviews were conducted with patients (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8927), family members (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893), and staff (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8910) at 3 US hospitals that operate CRPs. Patients and families were eligible for participation if they experienced a CRP, spoke English, and could no longer file a malpractice claim because they had accepted a settlement or the statute of limitations had expired. The CRP administrators identified hospital and insurer staff who had been involved in a CRP event and had a close relationship with the injured patient and/or family. They identified patients and families by applying the inclusion criteria to their CRP databases. Of 66 possible participants, 40 interviews (61%) were completed, including 30 of 50 invited patients and families (60%) and 10 of 16 invited staff (63%).Main Outcomes and Measures: Patients' reported satisfaction with disclosure and reconciliation efforts made by hospitals.Results: A total of 40 participants completed interviews (15 men and 25 women; mean [range] age, 46 [18-67]years). Among the 30 patients and family members interviewed, 27 patients experienced injuries attributed to error and received compensation. The CRP experience was positive overall for 18 of the 30 patients and family members, and 18 patients continued to receive care at the hospital. Satisfaction was highest when communications were empathetic and nonadversarial, including compensation negotiations. Patients and families expressed a strong need to be heard and expected the attending physician to listen without interrupting during conversations about the event. Thirty-five of the 40 respondents believed that including plaintiffs' attorneys in these discussions was helpful. Sixteen of the 30 patients and family members deemed their compensation to be adequate but 17 reported that the offer was not sufficiently proactive. Patients and families strongly desired to know what the hospital did to prevent recurrences of the event, but 24 of 30 reported receiving no information about safety improvement efforts.Conclusions and Relevance: As hospitals strive to provide more patient-centered care, opportunities exist to improve institutional responses to injuries and promote reconciliation. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Communication#Compensation and Redress#Family#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Iatrogenic Disease#Interviews as Topic#Male#Middle Aged#Negotiating#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Patient-Centered Care#Patients#Risk Management#United States"
b'Background: Primary aldosteronism is recognized as a severe form of renin-independent aldosteronism that results in excessive mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) activation.Objective: To investigate whether a spectrum of subclinical renin-independent aldosteronism that increases risk for hypertension exists among normotensive persons.Design: Cohort study.Setting: National community-based study.Participants: 850 untreated normotensive participants in MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis) with measurements of serum aldosterone and plasma renin activity (PRA).Measurements: Longitudinal analyses investigated whether aldosterone concentrations, in the context of physiologic PRA phenotypes (suppressed, \xe2\x89\xa40.50 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour; indeterminate, 0.51 to 0.99 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour; unsuppressed, \xe2\x89\xa51.0 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour), were associated with incident hypertension (defined as systolic blood pressure \xe2\x89\xa5140 mm Hg, diastolic blood pressure \xe2\x89\xa590 mm Hg, or initiation of antihypertensive medications). Cross-sectional analyses investigated associations between aldosterone and MR activity, assessed via serum potassium and urinary fractional excretion of potassium.Results: A suppressed renin phenotype was associated with a higher rate of incident hypertension than other PRA phenotypes (incidence rates per 1000 person-years of follow-up: suppressed renin phenotype, 85.4 events [95% CI, 73.4 to 99.3 events]; indeterminate renin phenotype, 53.3 events [CI, 42.8 to 66.4 events]; unsuppressed renin phenotype, 54.5 events [CI, 41.8 to 71.0 events]). With renin suppression, higher aldosterone concentrations were independently associated with an increased risk for incident hypertension, whereas no association between aldosterone and hypertension was seen when renin was not suppressed. Higher aldosterone concentrations were associated with lower serum potassium and higher urinary excretion of potassium, but only when renin was suppressed.Limitation: Sodium and potassium were measured several years before renin and aldosterone.Conclusion: Suppression of renin and higher aldosterone concentrations in the context of this renin suppression are associated with an increased risk for hypertension and possibly also with increased MR activity. These findings suggest a clinically relevant spectrum of subclinical primary aldosteronism (renin-independent aldosteronism) in normotension.Primary Funding Source: National Institutes of Health. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aldosterone#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Hyperaldosteronism#Hypertension#Incidence#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Potassium#Receptors, Mineralocorticoid#Renin#Risk Factors'
b'Saccadic adaptation is an oculomotor learning process that maintains the accuracy of eye movements to ensure effective perception of the environment. Although saccadic adaptation is commonly considered an automatic and low-level motor calibration in the cerebellum, we recently found that strength of adaptation is influenced by the visual content of the target: pictures of humans produced stronger adaptation than noise stimuli. This suggests that meaningful images may be considered rewarding or valuable in oculomotor learning. Here we report three experiments that establish the boundaries of this effect. In the first, we tested whether stimuli that were associated with high and low value following long term self-administered reinforcement learning produce stronger adaptation. Twenty-eight expert gamers participated in two sessions of adaptation to game-related high- and low-reward stimuli, but revealed no difference in saccadic adaptation (Bayes Factor01 = 5.49). In the second experiment, we tested whether cognitive (literate) meaning could induce stronger adaptation by comparing targets consisting of words and nonwords. The results of twenty subjects revealed no difference in adaptation strength (Bayes Factor01 = 3.21). The third experiment compared images of human figures to noise patterns for reactive saccades. Twenty-two subjects adapted significantly more toward images of human figures in comparison to noise (p<0.001). We conclude that only primary (human vs. noise), but not secondary, reinforcement affects saccadic adaptation (words vs. nonwords, high- vs. low-value video game images). labels: #Adaptation, Ocular#Adaptation, Physiological#Eye Movements#Female#Humans#Learning#Male#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Accurate measurement of adherence is necessary to ensure that therapeutic outcomes can be attributed to the recommended treatment. Phone-based unannounced pill counts were shown to be feasible and reliable measures of adherence in developed settings; and have been further used as part of medication adherence interventions. However, it is not clear whether this method can be implemented successfully in resource-limited settings, where cellular network and mobile phone coverage may be low. Our objective is to describe operational issues surrounding the use of phone-based unannounced pill counts in Lesotho and Ethiopia.METHODS: Phone-based monthly unannounced pill counts, using an adaptation of a standardized protocol from previous US-based studies, were utilized to measure anti-TB and antiretroviral medication adherence in two implementation science studies in resource-limited settings, START (Lesotho) and ENRICH (Ethiopia).RESULTS: In START, 19.6% of calls were completed, with 71.9% of participants reached at least once; majority of failed call attempts were due to phones not being available (54.8%) or because participants were away from the pills (32.7%). In ENRICH, 33.5% of calls were completed, with 86.7% of participants reached at least once; the main reasons for failed call attempts were phones being switched off (31.5%), participants not answering (27.3%), participants' discomfort speaking on the phone (15.4%), and network problems (13.2%). Structural, facility-level, participant-level, and data collection challenges were encountered in these settings.DISCUSSION: Phone-based unannounced pill counts were found to be challenging, and response rates suboptimal. While some of these challenges were specific to local contexts, most of them are generalizable to resource-limited settings. In a research study context, a possible solution to ease operational challenges may be to focus phone-based unannounced pill count efforts on a randomly selected sample from participants who are provided with study phones and rigorously ensure that call attempts are made for these participants. labels: #Adult#Cell Phone#Female#Health Care Rationing#Humans#Male#Medication Adherence"
b'High levels of gamma glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), as well as fatty liver index (FLI) has been associated with higher cardiovascular disease risk factors in adults. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between gamma-GT, ALT, and fatty liver index FLI levels across a gradient number of ideal cardiovascular health metrics in a representative sample of adults from the Chilean National Health Survey 2009-2010. Data from 1,023 men and 1,449 women (\xe2\x89\xa5 15 years) from the Chilean Health Survey 2009-2010 were analyzed. Ideal cardiovascular health was defined as meeting ideal levels of the following components: four behaviours (smoking, body mass index, physical activity and diet adherence) and three factors (total cholesterol, blood pressure and fasting glucose). Adults were grouped into three categories according to their number of ideal cardiovascular health metrics: ideal (5-7 metrics), intermediate (3-4 metrics), and poor (0-2 metrics). Blood levels of gamma-GT and ALT were measured and the FLI was calculated. A higher number of ideal cardiovascular health index metric was associated with lower gamma-GT, ALT and FLI (p from trend analysis<0.001). Also, adults meeting at least 3-4 metrics were predicted less likely to have prevalence of abnormal levels of gamma-GT and FLI (p<0.001) compared to adults who met only 0-2 metrics. These findings reinforce the usefulness of the ideal cardiovascular health metrics proposed by the American Heart Association as a tool to identify target subjects and promote cardiovascular health in South-American adults. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alanine Transaminase#Cardiovascular System#Chile#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#gamma-Glutamyltransferase'
b'Previous studies have shown that phenotypic modulation of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) plays a pivotal role in human diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reversible differentiation of SMCs remain elusive particularly because cultured SMCs that reproducibly exhibit bidirectional phenotypic modulation have not been established. Here we established an immortalized human bladder SMC line designated as hBS11. Under differentiation-inducing conditions, hBS11 cells underwent smooth muscle differentiation accompanied by the robust expression of smooth muscle differentiation markers and isoform-dependent reorganization of actin bundles. The cholinergic receptor agonist carbachol increased intracellular calcium in differentiated hBS11 cells in an acetylcholine muscarinic receptor-dependent manner. Differentiated hBS11 cells displayed contractile properties depending on the elevation in the levels of intracellular calcium. Depolarization of membrane potential triggered inward sodium current in differentiated hBS11 cells. However, differentiated hBS11 cells lost the differentiated phenotype and resumed mitosis when re-fed with growth medium. Our study provides direct evidence pertaining to the human bladder SMCs being able to retain the capacity of reversible differentiation and that the reorganization of actin bundles is involved in the reinstatement of contractility. Moreover, we have established a human SMC line retaining high proliferating potential without compromising differentiation potential. labels: #Actins#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Transformed#Humans#Muscle, Smooth#Urinary Bladder'
b'In multispecies microbial communities, the exchange of signals such as acyl-homoserine lactones (AHL) enables communication within and between species of Gram-negative bacteria. This process, commonly known as quorum sensing, aids in the regulation of genes crucial for the survival of species within heterogeneous populations of microbes. Although signal exchange was studied extensively in well-mixed environments, less is known about the consequences of crosstalk in spatially distributed mixtures of species. Here, signaling dynamics were measured in a spatially distributed system containing multiple strains utilizing homologous signaling systems. Crosstalk between strains containing the lux, las and rhl AHL-receptor circuits was quantified. In a distributed population of microbes, the impact of community composition on spatio-temporal dynamics was characterized and compared to simulation results using a modified reaction-diffusion model. After introducing a single term to account for crosstalk between each pair of signals, the model was able to reproduce the activation patterns observed in experiments. We quantified the robustness of signal propagation in the presence of interacting signals, finding that signaling dynamics are largely robust to interference. The ability of several wild isolates to participate in AHL-mediated signaling was investigated, revealing distinct signatures of crosstalk for each species. Our results present a route to characterize crosstalk between species and predict systems-level signaling dynamics in multispecies communities. labels: #Acyl-Butyrolactones#Bacterial Physiological Phenomena#Bacterial Proteins#Gram-Negative Bacteria#Models, Biological#Quorum Sensing#Signal Transduction'
b'Mutations in the NPHS2 gene, encoding podocin, cause hereditary nephrotic syndrome. The most common podocin mutation, R138Q, is associated with early disease onset and rapid progression to end-stage renal disease. Knock-in mice carrying a R140Q mutation, the mouse analogue of human R138Q, show developmental arrest of podocytes and lethal renal failure at neonatal age. Here we created a conditional podocin knock-in model named NPHS2 R140Q/-, using a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase, which permits to study the effects of the mutation in postnatal life. Within the first week of R140Q hemizygosity induction the animals developed proteinuria, which peaked after 4-5 weeks. Subsequently the animals developed progressive renal failure, with a median survival time of 12 (95% CI: 11-13) weeks. Foot process fusion was observed within one week, progressing to severe and global effacement in the course of the disease. The number of podocytes per glomerulus gradually diminished to 18% compared to healthy controls 12-16 weeks after induction. The fraction of segmentally sclerosed glomeruli was 25%, 85% and 97% at 2, 4 and 8 weeks, respectively. Severe tubulointerstitial fibrosis was present at later disease stage and was correlated quantitatively with the level of proteinuria at early disease stages. While R140Q podocin mRNA expression was elevated, protein abundance was reduced by more than 50% within one week following induction. Whereas miRNA21 expression persistently increased during the first 4 weeks, miRNA-193a expression peaked 2 weeks after induction. In conclusion, the inducible R140Q-podocin mouse model is an auspicious model of the most common genetic cause of human nephrotic syndrome, with a spontaneous disease course strongly reminiscent of the human disorder. This model constitutes a valuable tool to test the efficacy of novel pharmacological interventions aimed to improve podocyte function and viability and attenuate proteinuria, glomerulosclerosis and progressive renal failure. labels: #Animals#Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Mutation#Nephrotic Syndrome'
b'Chronic wasting disease (CWD) is a fatal transmissible spongiform encephalopathy affecting white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni), and moose (Alces alces shirasi) in North America. In southeastern Wyoming average annual CWD prevalence in mule deer exceeds 20% and appears to contribute to regional population declines. We determined the effect of CWD on mule deer demography using age-specific, female-only, CWD transition matrix models to estimate the population growth rate (\xce\xbb). Mule deer were captured from 2010-2014 in southern Converse County Wyoming, USA. Captured adult (\xe2\x89\xa5 1.5 years old) deer were tested ante-mortem for CWD using tonsil biopsies and monitored using radio telemetry. Mean annual survival rates of CWD-negative and CWD-positive deer were 0.76 and 0.32, respectively. Pregnancy and fawn recruitment were not observed to be influenced by CWD. We estimated \xce\xbb = 0.79, indicating an annual population decline of 21% under current CWD prevalence levels. A model derived from the demography of only CWD-negative individuals yielded; \xce\xbb = 1.00, indicating a stable population if CWD were absent. These findings support CWD as a significant contributor to mule deer population decline. Chronic wasting disease is difficult or impossible to eradicate with current tools, given significant environmental contamination, and at present our best recommendation for control of this disease is to minimize spread to new areas and na\xc3\xafve cervid populations. labels: #Animals#Deer#Endemic Diseases#Female#Male#Population Density#Pregnancy#Prevalence#Proportional Hazards Models#Wasting Disease, Chronic#Wyoming'
b"Height to crown base (HCB) of a tree is an important variable often included as a predictor in various forest models that serve as the fundamental tools for decision-making in forestry. We developed spatially explicit and spatially inexplicit mixed-effects HCB models using measurements from a total 19,404 trees of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) and European beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) on the permanent sample plots that are located across the Czech Republic. Variables describing site quality, stand density or competition, and species mixing effects were included into the HCB model with use of dominant height (HDOM), basal area of trees larger in diameters than a subject tree (BAL- spatially inexplicit measure) or Hegyi's competition index (HCI-spatially explicit measure), and basal area proportion of a species of interest (BAPOR), respectively. The parameters describing sample plot-level random effects were included into the HCB model by applying the mixed-effects modelling approach. Among several functional forms evaluated, the logistic function was found most suited to our data. The HCB model for Norway spruce was tested against the data originated from different inventory designs, but model for European beech was tested using partitioned dataset (a part of the main dataset). The variance heteroscedasticity in the residuals was substantially reduced through inclusion of a power variance function into the HCB model. The results showed that spatially explicit model described significantly a larger part of the HCB variations [R2adj = 0.86 (spruce), 0.85 (beech)] than its spatially inexplicit counterpart [R2adj = 0.84 (spruce), 0.83 (beech)]. The HCB increased with increasing competitive interactions described by tree-centered competition measure: BAL or HCI, and species mixing effects described by BAPOR. A test of the mixed-effects HCB model with the random effects estimated using at least four trees per sample plot in the validation data confirmed that the model was precise enough for the prediction of HCB for a range of site quality, tree size, stand density, and stand structure. We therefore recommend measuring of HCB on four randomly selected trees of a species of interest on each sample plot for localizing the mixed-effects model and predicting HCB of the remaining trees on the plot. Growth simulations can be made from the data that lack the values for either crown ratio or HCB using the HCB models. labels: #Fagus#Models, Biological#Picea"
b'We propose a novel method for multiple clustering, which is useful for analysis of high-dimensional data containing heterogeneous types of features. Our method is based on nonparametric Bayesian mixture models in which features are automatically partitioned (into views) for each clustering solution. This feature partition works as feature selection for a particular clustering solution, which screens out irrelevant features. To make our method applicable to high-dimensional data, a co-clustering structure is newly introduced for each view. Further, the outstanding novelty of our method is that we simultaneously model different distribution families, such as Gaussian, Poisson, and multinomial distributions in each cluster block, which widens areas of application to real data. We apply the proposed method to synthetic and real data, and show that our method outperforms other multiple clustering methods both in recovering true cluster structures and in computation time. Finally, we apply our method to a depression dataset with no true cluster structure available, from which useful inferences are drawn about possible clustering structures of the data. labels: #Cluster Analysis#Likelihood Functions#Models, Theoretical'
b'Loss of muscle mass and strength represents one of the most significant contributors to impaired function in older adults. Convenient and non-invasive biomarkers are needed that can readily identify and track age-related muscle change. Previous data has suggested electrical impedance myography (EIM) has the potential to serve in this capacity. In this study we investigated how changes in EIM compared with other standard measures of muscle structure and function in aged compared with young mice. A total of 19 male mice aged approximately 25 months and 19 male mice aged 3 months underwent surface multifrequency EIM of the right gastrocnemius muscle using standard methods. Fore and hind limb grip strength, sciatic compound muscle action potential amplitude, and in-situ force of the gastrocnemius were also measured; after sacrifice, gastrocnemius myofiber size was assessed using standard histology. Spearman correlation coefficients were calculated to investigate the association between EIM and muscle characteristics. EIM in aged animals demonstrated significantly lower 50 kHz impedance phase (p<0.001) and reactance (p<0.01) values as well as reduced multifrequency parameters. In contrast, absolute gastrocnemius muscle mass was no different between young and aged mice (p = 0.58) but was reduced in aged mice after normalization to body mass (p<0.001). Median myofiber size in the aged mice was not different from that of young mice (p = 0.72). Aged mice showed reduced muscle function on the basis of normalized fore limb (p<0.001) and normalized hind limb (p<0.001) grip strength, as well as normalized gastrocnemius twitch (p<0.001) and normalized maximal isometric force (p<0.001). Sciatic compound muscle action potential amplitude was reduced in aged mice (p<0.05). EIM parameters showed good correlation with reduced standard physiological and electrophysiological measures of muscle health. Our study suggests that EIM is sensitive to aged-related muscle change and may represent a convenient and valuable method of quantifying loss of muscle health. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Body Weight#Electric Impedance#Female#Male#Mice#Muscle, Skeletal#Myography#Organ Size'
b'The Mycobacterium tuberculosis protein encoded by the Rv1986 gene is a target for memory T cells in patients with tuberculosis, and shows strong similarities to a lysine exporter LysE of Corynebacterium glutamicum. During infection, the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis adapts its metabolism to environmental changes. In this study, we found that the expression of Rv1986 is controlled by Rv1985c. Rv1985c is located directly upstream of Rv1986 with an overlapping promoter region between both genes. Semiquantitative reverse transcription PCR using an isogenic mutant of Mycobacterium tuberculosis lacking Rv1985c showed that in the presence of lysine, Rv1985c protein positively upregulated the expression of Rv1986. RNA sequencing revealed the transcription start points for both transcripts and overlapping promoters. An inverted repeat in the center of the intergenic region was identified, and binding of Rv1985c protein to the intergenic region was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Whole transcriptome expression analysis and RNAsequencing showed downregulated transcription of ppsBCD in the Rv1985c-mutant compared to the wild type strain. Taken together, our findings characterize the regulatory network of Rv1985c in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Due to their similarity of an orthologous gene pair in Corynebacterium glutamicum, we suggest to rename Rv1985c to lysG(Mt), and Rv1986 to lysE(Mt). labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Bacterial Proteins#Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Genes, Bacterial#Lysine#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Trans-Activators#Transcriptome'
b'OBJECTIVE: Having experienced 2-3 births is associated with reduced mortality versus women with<2 or \xe2\x89\xa54 births. The effect of 2-3 births on lifespan may be associated with delayed cellular aging. We hypothesized telomere length, a marker of cellular aging, would be longer in women who had 2-3 pregnancies.METHODS: Leukocyte telomere length was measured using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction in 620 women in CARDIA at the year 15 and 20 exams, expressed as the ratio of telomere repeat copy number to single-copy gene copy number (T/S). Number of pregnancies at the time of telomere length measurement was obtained (mean age = 41\xc2\xb10.1 years, average gravidity = 2.64\xc2\xb10.1 pregnancies). Participants were divided into 4 groups by number of pregnancies: 0, 1, 2-3, and \xe2\x89\xa54, to test for differences in telomere length by gravidity group.RESULTS: The mean and SD for telomere length was 0.98 \xc2\xb1 0.20 T/S in the whole cohort. There were no differences in mean telomere length between groups; 0.98\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with 0 pregnancies, 1.01\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with 1 pregnancy, 0.97\xc2\xb10.01 T/S in women with 2-3 pregnancies, and 0.99\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with \xe2\x89\xa54 pregnancies (p = 0.51). We defined high-risk (shorter) telomere length as \xe2\x89\xa425th percentile, and low-risk (longer) telomere length as \xe2\x89\xa575 percentile. There were no differences in the prevalence of high-risk or low-risk telomere length between gravidity groups.CONCLUSIONS: Gravidity was not associated with telomere length in early middle age; the protective association of 2-3 births may act through other mechanisms. labels: #Adult#Cohort Studies#Coronary Artery Disease#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Gravidity#Humans#Middle Aged#Telomere#Young Adult'
b'The role of extrinsic mortality in shaping life histories is poorly understood. However, substantial evidence suggests that extrinsic mortality interacts with density-dependence in crucial ways. We develop a model combining Evolutionarily Stable Strategies with a projection matrix that allows resource allocation to growth, tissue repairs, and reproduction. Our model examines three cases, with density-dependence acting on: (i) mortality, (ii) fecundity, and (iii) production rate. We demonstrate that density-independent extrinsic mortality influences the rate of aging, age at maturity, growth rate, and adult size provided that density-dependence acts on fertility or juvenile mortality. However, density-independent extrinsic mortality has no effect on these life history traits when density-dependence acts on survival. We show that extrinsic mortality interacts with density-dependence via a compensation mechanism: the higher the extrinsic mortality the lower the strength of density-dependence. However, this compensation fully offsets the effect of extrinsic mortality only if density-dependence acts on survival independently of age. Both the age-pattern and the type of density-dependence are crucial for shaping life history traits. labels: #Life Cycle Stages#Models, Biological#Mortality#Resource Allocation'
b'OBJECTIVES: Intrahepatic (ICC) and extrahepatic (ECC) cholangiocarcinomas are rare tumors that arise from the epithelial cells of the bile ducts, and the etiology of both cancer types is poorly understood. Thus, we utilized the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare resource to examine risk factors and novel preexisting medical conditions that may be associated with these cancer types.METHODS: Between 2000 and 2011, 2,092 ICC and 2,981 ECC cases and 323,615 controls were identified using the SEER-Medicare database. Logistic regression was used to calculate adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI).RESULTS: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease was associated with approximately 3-fold increased risks of ICC (OR = 3.52, 95% CI: 2.87-4.32) and ECC (OR = 2.93, 95% CI: 2.42-3.55). Other metabolic conditions, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, were also associated with increased risks of both cancer types. Smoking was associated with a 46% and 77% increased ICC and ECC risk, respectively. Several autoimmune/inflammatory conditions, including type 1 diabetes and gout, were associated with increased risks of ICC/ECC. As anticipated, viral hepatitis, alcohol-related disorders, and bile duct conditions were associated with both cancer types. However, thyrotoxicosis and hemochromatosis were associated with an increased risk of ICC but not ECC, but did not remain significantly associated after Bonferroni correction.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, risk factors for ICC and ECC were similar, with the exceptions of thyrotoxicosis and hemochromatosis. Notably, metabolic conditions were associated with both cancer types. As metabolic conditions are increasing in prevalence, these could be increasingly important risk factors for both types of cholangiocarcinoma. labels: #Bile Duct Neoplasms#Cholangiocarcinoma#Humans#Medicare#Risk Factors#SEER Program#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: The emergence, accumulation and spread of HIV-1 drug resistance strains in Africa could compromise the effectiveness of HIV treatment programs. This study was aimed at determining the incidence of virological failure and acquired drug resistance mutations overtime and identifying the most common mutational pathways of resistance in a well characterized HIV-1C infected Ethiopian cohort.METHODS: A total of 320 patients (220 ART na\xc3\xafve and 100 on first lines ART) were included and followed. ART initiation and patients' monitoring was based on the WHO clinical and immunological parameters. HIV viral load measurement and genotypic drug resistance testing were done at baseline (T0-2008) and after on average at a median time of 30 months on ART at three time points (T1-2011, T2-2013, T3-2015).FINDINGS: The incidence of virological failure has increased overtime from 11 at T1 to 17 at T2 and then to 30% at T3. At all time point's almost all of the patients with virological failure and accumulated drug resistance mutations had not met the WHO clinical and immunologic failure criteria and continued the failing regimen. A steep increase in the incidence and accumulation of major acquired NRTI and NNRTI drug resistance mutations have been observed (from 40% at T1 to 64% at T2 and then to 66% at T3). The most frequent NRTIs drug resistance associated mutations are mainly the lamivudine-induced mutation M184V which was detected in 4 patients at T1 and showed a 2 fold increase in the following time points (T2: n = 8) and at (T3: n = 12) and the thymidine analogue mutations (such as D67N, K70R and K219E) which were not-detected at baseline T0 and T1 but were increased progressively to 10 at T2 and to 17 at T3. The most frequent NNRTIs associated mutations were K103N, V106M and Y188C.CONCLUSIONS: An upward trend in the incidence of virological failure and accumulation of NRTI and NNRTI associated acquired antiretroviral drug resistance mutations are observed. The data suggest the need for virological monitoring, resistance testing for early detection of failure and access for TDF and PI containing drugs. Population-level and patient targeted interventions to prevent the spread of mutant variants is warranted. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Cohort Studies#Drug Resistance, Viral#Ethiopia#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Mutation#Viral Load"
b'PURPOSE: This study introduces a novel way to accurately assess gait quality. This new method called Multifeature Gait Score (MGS) is based on the computation of multiple parameters characterizing six aspects of gait (temporal, amplitude, variability, regularity, symmetry and complexity) quantified with one inertial sensor. According to the aspects described, parameters were aggregated into partial scores to indicate the altered aspect in the case of abnormal patterns. In order to evaluate the overall gait quality, partial scores were averaged to a global score.METHODS: The MGS was computed for 3 groups namely: healthy adult (10 subjects), sedentary elderly (11 subjects) and active elderly (20 subjects). Data were gathered from an inertial sensor located at the lumbar region during two sessions of 12m walking.RESULTS: The results based on ANOVA and Tukey tests showed that the partial scores with the exception of those which describe the symmetry aspect were able to discriminate between groups (p<0.05). This significant difference was also confirmed by the global score which shows a significantly lower value for the sedentary elderly group (3.58 \xc2\xb11.15) compared to the healthy adults (5.19 \xc2\xb10.84) and active elderly (4.82 \xc2\xb11.26). In addition, the intersession repeatability of the elaborated global score was excellent (ICC = 0.93, % SEM = 10.81).CONCLUSION: The results obtained support the reliability and the relevance of the MGS as a novel method to characterize gait quality. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Case-Control Studies#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Principal Component Analysis#Sedentary Lifestyle'
b'Prediction-error signals consistent with formal models of "reinforcement learning" (RL) have repeatedly been found within dopaminergic nuclei of the midbrain and dopaminoceptive areas of the striatum. However, the precise form of the RL algorithms implemented in the human brain is not yet well determined. Here, we created a novel paradigm optimized to dissociate the subtypes of reward-prediction errors that function as the key computational signatures of two distinct classes of RL models-namely, "actor/critic" models and action-value-learning models (e.g., the Q-learning model). The state-value-prediction error (SVPE), which is independent of actions, is a hallmark of the actor/critic architecture, whereas the action-value-prediction error (AVPE) is the distinguishing feature of action-value-learning algorithms. To test for the presence of these prediction-error signals in the brain, we scanned human participants with a high-resolution functional magnetic-resonance imaging (fMRI) protocol optimized to enable measurement of neural activity in the dopaminergic midbrain as well as the striatal areas to which it projects. In keeping with the actor/critic model, the SVPE signal was detected in the substantia nigra. The SVPE was also clearly present in both the ventral striatum and the dorsal striatum. However, alongside these purely state-value-based computations we also found evidence for AVPE signals throughout the striatum. These high-resolution fMRI findings suggest that model-free aspects of reward learning in humans can be explained algorithmically with RL in terms of an actor/critic mechanism operating in parallel with a system for more direct action-value learning. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Brain Mapping#Computer Simulation#Corpus Striatum#Humans#Image Enhancement#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Mental Recall#Mesencephalon#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Neuronal Plasticity#Reinforcement (Psychology)'
b'BACKGROUND: Measurement of Emergency Obstetric Care capability is common, and measurement of newborn and overall routine childbirth care has begun in recent years. These assessments of facility capabilities can be used to identify geographic inequalities in access to functional health services and to monitor improvements over time. This paper develops an approach for monitoring the childbirth environment that accounts for the delivery caseload of the facility.METHODS: We used data from the Kenya Service Provision Assessment to examine facility capability to provide quality childbirth care, including infrastructure, routine maternal and newborn care, and emergency obstetric and newborn care. A facility was considered capable of providing a function if necessary tracer items were present and, for emergency functions, if the function had been performed in the previous three months. We weighted facility capability by delivery caseload, and compared results with those generated using traditional "survey weights".RESULTS: Of the 403 facilities providing childbirth care, the proportion meeting criteria for capability were: 13% for general infrastructure, 6% for basic emergency obstetric care, 3% for basic emergency newborn care, 13% and 11% for routine maternal and newborn care, respectively. When the new caseload weights accounting for delivery volume were applied, capability improved and the proportions of deliveries occurring in a facility meeting capability criteria were: 51% for general infrastructure, 46% for basic emergency obstetric care, 12% for basic emergency newborn care, 36% and 18% for routine maternal and newborn care, respectively. This is because most of the caseload was in hospitals, which generally had better capability. Despite these findings, fewer than 2% of deliveries occurred in a facility capable of providing all functions.CONCLUSION: Reporting on the percentage of facilities capable of providing certain functions misrepresents the capacity to provide care at the national level. Delivery caseload weights allow adjustment for patient volume, and shift the denominator of measurement from facilities to individual deliveries, leading to a better representation of the context in which facility births take place. These methods could lead to more standardized national datasets, enhancing their ability to inform policy at a national and international level. labels: #Delivery, Obstetric#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Maternal Health Services#Pregnancy'
b'Feline panleukopenia is a common contagious disease with high morbidity and mortality. At present, feline parvovirus (FPV) and canine parvovirus (CPV) variants are the pathogens of feline panleukopenia. Many studies have shown that miRNAs are involved in virus-host interactions. Nevertheless, miRNA expression profiling of FPV (original virus) or CPV-2b (new virus) in cats has not been reported. To investigate these profiles, three 10-week-old cats were orally inoculated with 106 TCID50 of the viruses (FPV and CPV-2b), and the jejunums of one cat in each group were sectioned for miRNA sequencing at 5 days post-inoculation (dpi). This study is the first attempt to use miRNA analysis to understand the molecular basis of FPV and CPV infection in cats. The miRNA expression profiles of the jejunums of cats infected with FPV and CPV were obtained, and a subset of miRNAs was validated by real-time qPCR. The results show that a variety of metabolism-related pathways, cytokine- and pathogen-host interaction-related pathways, and pathology- and cellar structure-related pathways, as well as others, were affected. Specifically, the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, which is critical for cytokines and growth factors, was enriched. This description of the miRNAs involved in regulating FPV and CPV infection in vivo provides further insight into the mechanisms of viral infection and adaptation and might provide an alternative antiviral strategy for disease control and prevention. labels: #Animals#Cat Diseases#Cats#Dog Diseases#Dogs#MicroRNAs#Parvoviridae Infections#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'We introduce and use Wavelet Imaging on Multiple Scales (WIMS) as an improvement to fluorescence correlation spectroscopy to measure physical processes and features that occur across multiple length scales. In this study, wavelet transforms of cell images are used to characterize molecular dynamics at the cellular and subcellular levels (i.e. focal adhesions). We show the usefulness of the technique by applying WIMS to an image time series of a migrating osteosarcoma cell expressing fluorescently labelled adhesion proteins, which allows us to characterize different components of the cell ranging from optical resolution scale through to focal adhesion and whole cell size scales. Using WIMS we measured focal adhesion numbers, orientation and cell boundary velocities for retraction and protrusion. We also determine the internal dynamics of individual focal adhesions undergoing assembly, disassembly or elongation. Thus confirming as previously shown, WIMS reveals that the number of adhesions and the area of the protruding region of the cell are strongly correlated, establishing a correlation between protrusion size and adhesion dynamics. We also apply this technique to characterize the behavior of adhesions, actin and myosin in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing a mutant form of myosin IIB (1935D) that displays decreased filament stability and impairs front-back cell polarity. We find separate populations of actin and myosin at each adhesion pole for both the mutant and wild type form. However, we find these populations move rapidly inwards toward one another in the mutant case in contrast to the cells that express wild type myosin IIB where those populations remain stationary. Results obtained with these two systems demonstrate how WIMS has the potential to reveal novel correlations between chosen parameters that belong to different scales. labels: #Actomyosin#Animals#CHO Cells#Cricetinae#Cricetulus#Focal Adhesions#Microscopy, Fluorescence#Point Mutation#Protein Stability#Wavelet Analysis'
b'Diacerein seems to improve metabolic control and reduce inflammatory marker levels in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (Type 2 DM), but for participants with chronic kidney disease (CKD) its effect is unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of diacerein vs. placebo on urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR), glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and inflammatory cytokines in type 2 DM participants with CKD. Blood pressure (BP) and metabolic control were secondary outcomes. This randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel trial of adjuvant treatment of type 2 DM with diacerein enrolled seventy-two participants with CKD, aged 30-80 years, with glycated hemoglobin levels from 53-97 mmol/mol (7.0-11.0%), receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers and antidiabetic agents. Participants randomized to diacerein or placebo were followed-up up to 90 days. Both groups had a marked reduction in ACR, but there was no effect on glomerular filtration rate. While the diacerein group had reduced TNF-\xce\xb1 levels at the 75th percentile with a borderline significance (P = 0.05), there were no changes in the IL levels at the 75th percentile. Diacerein prevented the increase in blood glucose to the level observed in the placebo group (P = 0.04), improving metabolic control by 74%, reducing 24-hour diastolic BP, nighttime systolic and diastolic BP compared to the placebo group. In conclusion, among patients with type 2 DM and CKD, diacerein does not have an effect on ACR or GFR, but slows metabolic control deterioration and is associated with lower nighttime systolic and diastolic blood pressure.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Brazilian Clinical Trials Registry (Registro Brasileiro de Ensaios Clinicos; ReBeC) U1111-1156-0255. labels: #Aged#Anthraquinones#Cytokines#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Inflammation Mediators#Kidney#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Male#Middle Aged#Placebos'
b'The production of lignocellulosic-derived biofuels is a highly promising source of alternative energy, but it has been constrained by the lack of a microbial platform capable to efficiently degrade this recalcitrant material and cope with by-products that can be toxic to cells. Species that naturally grow in environments where carbon is mainly available as lignin are promising for finding new ways of removing the lignin that protects cellulose for improved conversion of lignin to fuel precursors. Enterobacter lignolyticus SCF1 is a facultative anaerobic Gammaproteobacteria isolated from tropical rain forest soil collected in El Yunque forest, Puerto Rico under anoxic growth conditions with lignin as sole carbon source. Whole transcriptome analysis of SCF1 during E.lignolyticus SCF1 lignin degradation was conducted on cells grown in the presence (0.1%, w/w) and the absence of lignin, where samples were taken at three different times during growth, beginning of exponential phase, mid-exponential phase and beginning of stationary phase. Lignin-amended cultures achieved twice the cell biomass as unamended cultures over three days, and in this time degraded 60% of lignin. Transcripts in early exponential phase reflected this accelerated growth. A complement of laccases, aryl-alcohol dehydrogenases, and peroxidases were most up-regulated in lignin amended conditions in mid-exponential and early stationary phases compared to unamended growth. The association of hydrogen production by way of the formate hydrogenlyase complex with lignin degradation suggests a possible value added to lignin degradation in the future. labels: #Culture Media#Enterobacter#Lignin#RNA, Bacterial#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'Importance: Insulin pump therapy may improve metabolic control in young patients with type 1 diabetes, but the association with short-term diabetes complications is unclear.Objective: To determine whether rates of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis are lower with insulin pump therapy compared with insulin injection therapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes.Design, Setting, and Participants: Population-based cohort study conducted between January 2011 and December 2015 in 446 diabetes centers participating in the Diabetes Prospective Follow-up Initiative in Germany, Austria, and Luxembourg. Patients with type 1 diabetes younger than 20 years and diabetes duration of more than 1 year were identified. Propensity score matching and inverse probability of treatment weighting analyses with age, sex, diabetes duration, migration background (defined as place of birth outside of Germany or Austria), body mass index, and glycated hemoglobin as covariates were used to account for relevant confounders.Exposures: Type 1 diabetes treated with insulin pump therapy or with multiple (\xe2\x89\xa54) daily insulin injections.Main Outcomes and Measures: Primary outcomes were rates of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis during the most recent treatment year. Secondary outcomes included glycated hemoglobin levels, insulin dose, and body mass index.Results: Of 30\xe2\x80\xaf579 patients (mean age, 14.1 years [SD, 4.0]; 53% male), 14\xe2\x80\xaf119 used pump therapy (median duration, 3.7 years) and 16\xe2\x80\xaf460 used insulin injections (median duration, 3.6 years). Patients using pump therapy (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x899814) were matched with 9814 patients using injection therapy. Pump therapy, compared with injection therapy, was associated with lower rates of severe hypoglycemia (9.55 vs 13.97 per 100 patient-years; difference, -4.42 [95% CI, -6.15 to -2.69]; P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001) and diabetic ketoacidosis (3.64 vs 4.26 per 100 patient-years; difference, -0.63 [95% CI, -1.24 to -0.02]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.04). Glycated hemoglobin levels were lower with pump therapy than with injection therapy (8.04% vs 8.22%; difference, -0.18 [95% CI, -0.22 to -0.13], P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Total daily insulin doses were lower for pump therapy compared with injection therapy (0.84 U/kg vs 0.98 U/kg; difference, -0.14 [-0.15 to -0.13], P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). There was no significant difference in body mass index between both treatment regimens. Similar results were obtained after propensity score inverse probability of treatment weighting analyses in the entire cohort.Conclusions and Relevance: Among young patients with type 1 diabetes, insulin pump therapy, compared with insulin injection therapy, was associated with lower risks of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis and with better glycemic control during the most recent year of therapy. These findings provide evidence for improved clinical outcomes associated with insulin pump therapy compared with injection therapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes. labels: #Adolescent#Blood Glucose#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Diabetic Ketoacidosis#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Infant#Injections#Insulin#Insulin Infusion Systems#Male#Regression Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Importance: Despite lack of evidence of their utility, biomarkers of ovarian reserve are being promoted as potential markers of reproductive potential.Objective: To determine the associations between biomarkers of ovarian reserve and reproductive potential among women of late reproductive age.Design, Setting, and Participants: Prospective time-to-pregnancy cohort study (2008 to date of last follow-up in March 2016) of women (N\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89981) aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less, recruited from the community in the Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina, area.Exposures: Early-follicular-phase serum level of antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone (AMH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and inhibin B and urinary level of FSH.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcomes were the cumulative probability of conception by 6 and 12 cycles of attempt and relative fecundability (probability of conception in a given menstrual cycle). Conception was defined as a positive pregnancy test result.Results: A total of 750 women (mean age, 33.3 [SD, 3.2] years; 77% white; 36% overweight or obese) provided a blood and urine sample and were included in the analysis. After adjusting for age, body mass index, race, current smoking status, and recent hormonal contraceptive use, women with low AMH values (<0.7 ng/mL [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8984]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving by 6 cycles of attempt (65%; 95% CI, 50%-75%) compared with women (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89579) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 57%-66%) or by 12 cycles of attempt (84% [95% CI, 70%-91%]vs 75% [95% CI, 70%-79%], respectively). Women with high serum FSH values (>10 mIU/mL [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8983]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (63%; 95% CI, 50%-73%) compared with women (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89654) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 57%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (82% [95% CI, 70%-89%]vs 75% [95% CI, 70%-78%], respectively). Women with high urinary FSH values (>11.5 mIU/mg creatinine [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8969]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (61%; 95% CI, 46%-74%) compared with women (n = 660) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 58%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (70% [95% CI, 54%-80%]vs 76% [95% CI, 72%-80%], respectively). Inhibin B levels (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89737) were not associated with the probability of conceiving in a given cycle (hazard ratio per 1-pg/mL increase, 0.999; 95% CI, 0.997-1.001).Conclusions and Relevance: Among women aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less, biomarkers indicating diminished ovarian reserve compared with normal ovarian reserve were not associated with reduced fertility. These findings do not support the use of urinary or blood follicle-stimulating hormone tests or antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone levels to assess natural fertility for women with these characteristics. labels: #Adult#Anti-Mullerian Hormone#Biomarkers#Female#Follicle Stimulating Hormone#Humans#Infertility, Female#Inhibins#Ovarian Reserve#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Time-to-Pregnancy'
b"Accurate information regarding prognosis is fundamental to optimal clinical care. The best approach to assess patient prognosis relies on prediction models that simultaneously consider a number of prognostic factors and provide an estimate of patients' absolute risk of an event. Such prediction models should be characterized by adequately discriminating between patients who will have an event and those who will not and by adequate calibration ensuring accurate prediction of absolute risk. This Users' Guide will help clinicians understand the available metrics for assessing discrimination, calibration, and the relative performance of different prediction models. This article complements existing Users' Guides that address the development and validation of prediction models. Together, these guides will help clinicians to make optimal use of existing prediction models. labels: #Area Under Curve#Humans#Models, Statistical#Prognosis#ROC Curve#Risk Assessment#Sensitivity and Specificity"
b"Saccades shift the retina with high-speed motion. In order to compensate for the sudden displacement, the visuomotor system needs to combine saccade-related information and visual metrics. Many neurons in oculomotor but also in visual areas shift their receptive field shortly before the execution of a saccade (Duhamel, Colby,&Goldberg, 1992; Nakamura&Colby, 2002). These shifts supposedly enable the binding of information from before and after the saccade. It is a matter of current debate whether these shifts are merely location based (i.e., involve remapping of abstract spatial coordinates) or also comprise information about visual features. We have recently presented fMRI evidence for a feature-based remapping mechanism in visual areas V3, V4, and VO (Zimmermann, Weidner, Abdollahi,&Fink, 2016). In particular, we found fMRI adaptation in cortical regions representing a stimulus' retinotopic as well as its spatiotopic position. Here, we asked whether spatiotopic adaptation exists independently from retinotopic adaptation and which type of information is behaviorally more relevant after saccade execution. We first adapted at the saccade target location only and found a spatiotopic tilt aftereffect. Then, we simultaneously adapted both the fixation and the saccade target location but with opposite tilt orientations. As a result, adaptation from the fixation location was carried retinotopically to the saccade target position. The opposite tilt orientation at the retinotopic location altered the effects induced by spatiotopic adaptation. More precisely, it cancelled out spatiotopic adaptation at the saccade target location. We conclude that retinotopic and spatiotopic visual adaptation are independent effects. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Orientation#Orientation, Spatial#Photic Stimulation#Retina#Saccades"
b'We measured perceptual judgments of category, material attributes, affordances, and similarity to investigate the perceptual dimensions underlying the visual representation of a broad class of natural dynamic flows (sea waves, smoke, and windblown foliage). The dynamic flows were looped 3-s movies windowed with circular apertures of two sizes to manipulate the level of spatial context. In low levels of spatial context (smaller apertures), human observers\' judgments of material attributes and affordances were inaccurate, with estimates biased toward assumptions that the flows resulted from objects that were rigid, "pick-up-able," and not penetrable. The similarity arrangements showed dynamic flow clusters based partly on material, but dominated by color appearance. In high levels of spatial context (large apertures), observers reliably estimated material categories and their attributes. The similarity arrangements were based primarily on categories related to external, physical causes. Representational similarity analysis suggests that while shallow dimensions like color sometimes account for inferences of physical causes in the low-context condition, shallow dimensions cannot fully account for these inferences in the high-context condition. For the current broad data set of dynamic flows, the perceptual dimensions that best account for the similarity arrangements in the high-context condition are related to the intermolecular bond strength of a material\'s underlying physical structure. These arrangements are also best related to affordances that underlie common motor activities. Thus, the visual system appears to use an efficient strategy to resolve flow ambiguity; vision will sometimes rely on local, image-based, statistical properties that can support reliable inference of external physical causes, and other times it uses deeper causal knowledge to interpret and use flow information to the extent that it is useful for everyday action decisions. labels: #Attention#Form Perception#Humans#Judgment#Motion Perception#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Photic Stimulation'
b'We employed eye-tracking to investigate how performing different tasks on scenes (e.g., intentionally memorizing them, searching for an object, evaluating aesthetic preference) can affect eye movements during encoding and subsequent scene memory. We found that scene memorability decreased after visual search (one incidental encoding task) compared to intentional memorization, and that preference evaluation (another incidental encoding task) produced better memory, similar to the incidental memory boost previously observed for words and faces. By analyzing fixation maps, we found that although fixation map similarity could explain how eye movements during visual search impairs incidental scene memory, it could not explain the incidental memory boost from aesthetic preference evaluation, implying that implicit mechanisms were at play. We conclude that not all incidental encoding tasks should be taken to be similar, as different mechanisms (e.g., explicit or implicit) lead to memory enhancements or decrements for different incidental encoding tasks. labels: #Adult#Eye Movements#Female#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Male#Memory#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Task Performance and Analysis'
b'Clinical Question: Among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who do not achieve optimal glycemic control with insulin monotherapy, is the addition of oral hypoglycemic agents associated with benefits (measured by lowering of hemoglobin A1c) or adverse effects?Bottom Line: Adding a sulfonylurea to insulin was associated with more hypoglycemic events compared with insulin alone, but this association was not observed for metformin. Adding a sulfonylurea or metformin to insulin was associated with a decrease in hemoglobin A1c of approximately 1.0%. labels: #Administration, Oral#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Drug Therapy, Combination#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin#Metformin#Review Literature as Topic#Sulfonylurea Compounds'
b'Importance: Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are effective therapies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and are all currently available as an injection.Objectives: To compare the effects of oral semaglutide with placebo (primary) and open-label subcutaneous semaglutide (secondary) on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.Design, Setting, and Patients: Phase 2, randomized, parallel-group, dosage-finding, 26-week trial with 5-week follow-up at 100 sites (hospital clinics, general practices, and clinical research centers) in 14 countries conducted between December 2013 and December 2014. Of 1106 participants assessed, 632 with type 2 diabetes and insufficient glycemic control using diet and exercise alone or a stable dose of metformin were randomized. Randomization was stratified by metformin use.Interventions: Once-daily oral semaglutide of 2.5 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 5 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 10 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 20 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 40-mg 4-week dose escalation (standard escalation; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8971), 40-mg 8-week dose escalation (slow escalation; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 40-mg 2-week dose escalation (fast escalation, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), oral placebo (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8971; double-blind) or once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide of 1.0 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970) for 26 weeks.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary end point was change in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) from baseline to week 26. Secondary end points included change from baseline in body weight and adverse events.Results: Baseline characteristics were comparable across treatment groups. Of the 632 randomized patients (mean age, 57.1 years [SD, 10.6]; men, 395 (62.7%); diabetes duration, 6.3 years [SD, 5.2]; body weight, 92.3 kg [SD, 16.8]; BMI, 31.7 [SD, 4.3]), 583 (92%) completed the trial. Mean change in HbA1c level from baseline to week 26 decreased with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -0.7% to -1.9%) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-1.9%) and placebo (-0.3%); oral semaglutide reductions were significant vs placebo (dosage-dependent estimated treatment difference [ETD] range for oral semaglutide vs placebo, -0.4% to -1.6%; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.01 for 2.5 mg,<.001 for all other dosages). Reductions in body weight were greater with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -2.1 kg to -6.9 kg) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-6.4 kg) vs placebo (-1.2 kg), and significant for oral semaglutide dosages of 10 mg or more vs placebo (dosage-dependent ETD range, -0.9 to -5.7 kg; P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Adverse events were reported by 63% to 86% (371 of 490 patients) in the oral semaglutide groups, 81% (56 of 69 patients) in the subcutaneous semaglutide group, and 68% (48 of 71 patients) in the placebo group; mild to moderate gastrointestinal events were most common.Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients with type 2 diabetes, oral semaglutide resulted in better glycemic control than placebo over 26 weeks. These findings support phase 3 studies to assess longer-term and clinical outcomes, as well as safety.Trial Registration: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01923181. labels: #Administration, Oral#Blood Glucose#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Glucagon-Like Peptides#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Injections, Subcutaneous#Male#Middle Aged#Nausea'
b'Importance: Transfusion of red blood cells from female donors has been associated with increased mortality in male recipients.Objective: To quantify the association between red blood cell transfusion from female donors with and without a history of pregnancy and mortality of red blood cell recipients.Design, Setting, and Participants: Retrospective cohort study of first-time transfusion recipients at 6 major Dutch hospitals enrolled from May 30, 2005, to September 1, 2015; the final follow-up date was September 1, 2015. The primary analysis was the no-donor-mixture cohort (ie, either all red blood cell transfusions exclusively from male donors, or all exclusively from female donors without a history of pregnancy, or all exclusively from female donors with a history of pregnancy). The association between mortality and exposure to transfusions from ever-pregnant or never-pregnant female donors was analyzed using life tables and time-varying Cox proportional hazards models.Exposures: Red blood cell transfusions from ever-pregnant or never-pregnant female donors, compared with red blood cell transfusions from male donors.Main Outcomes and Measures: All-cause mortality during follow-up.Results: The cohort for the primary analyses consisted of 31\xe2\x80\xaf118 patients (median age, 65 [interquartile range, 42-77] years; 52% female) who received 59\xe2\x80\xaf320 red blood cell transfusions exclusively from 1 of 3 types of donors (88% male; 6% ever-pregnant female; and 6% never-pregnant female). The number of deaths in this cohort was 3969 (13% mortality). For male recipients of red blood cell transfusions, all-cause mortality rates after a red blood cell transfusion from an ever-pregnant female donor vs male donor were 101 vs 80 deaths per 1000 person-years (time-dependent "per transfusion" hazard ratio [HR]for death, 1.13 [95% CI, 1.01-1.26]). For receipt of transfusion from a never-pregnant female donor vs male donor, mortality rates were 78 vs 80 deaths per 1000 person-years (HR, 0.93 [95% CI, 0.81-1.06]). Among female recipients of red blood cell transfusions, mortality rates for an ever-pregnant female donor vs male donor were 74 vs 62 per 1000 person-years (HR, 0.99 [95% CI, 0.87 to 1.13]); for a never-pregnant female donor vs male donor, mortality rates were 74 vs 62 per 1000 person-years (HR, 1.01 [95% CI, 0.88-1.15]).Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients who received red blood cell transfusions, receipt of a transfusion from an ever-pregnant female donor, compared with a male donor, was associated with increased all-cause mortality among male recipients but not among female recipients. Transfusions from never-pregnant female donors were not associated with increased mortality among male or female recipients. Further research is needed to replicate these findings, determine their clinical significance, and identify the underlying mechanism. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Blood Donors#Child#Child, Preschool#Erythrocyte Transfusion#Erythrocytes#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Male#Middle Aged#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Sex Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To determine the constituents and origin of the yellow pigment in surgically removed lamellar hole-associated epiretinal proliferation (LHEP) in patients with lamellar macular hole (LMH).Methods: This prospective case series comprised nine eyes with LMH in patients aged 41 to 83 years. The presence of LHEP was confirmed by preoperative optical coherence tomography; the distribution of macular pigment was observed by two-wavelength fundus autofluorescence technique before and after surgery. The subjects underwent a 25-gauge vitrectomy, and the surgically removed epiretinal membranous tissue was fixed with formalin. The specimens were examined using resonance Raman microscopy, and paraffin sections were stained with antiglial fibrillary acidic protein.Results: Seven cases presented with LHEP, and the presence of yellow pigment was confirmed using an operating microscope. Carotenoid-specific Raman signals with three major Raman peaks could be identified in the specimens with LHEP. These specimens were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein staining. Using the fundus autofluorescence technique, a central defect in the distribution of the macular pigment was noted in the exact area of the lamellar hole. This type of defect was no longer visible after surgical repair of the lamellar hole.Conclusions: The constituents of the yellow pigment in the removed LHEP were carotenoids that typically originate from the macular xanthophyll pigments at the fovea. Since LHEP is reported to be composed of M\xc3\xbcller cells, we hypothesize that xanthophyll carotenoids at the fovea are contained in the M\xc3\xbcller cells. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers#Epiretinal Membrane#Female#Fundus Oculi#Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein#Humans#Macular Pigment#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Retinal Perforations#Spectrum Analysis, Raman#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Vitrectomy#Xanthophylls'
b'Purpose: The clearer divergence in spectral sensitivity between native rod and human L-cone (L*-cone) opsins in the transgenic Opn1lwLIAIS mouse (LIAIS) allows normal visual processes mediated by these photoreceptor subtypes to be isolated effectively using the silent substitution technique. The objective of this study was to further characterize the influence of mean luminance and temporal frequency on the functional properties of signals originating in each photoreceptor separately and independently of adaptation state in LIAIS mice.Methods: Electroretinographic (ERG) recordings to sine-wave rod and L*-cone modulation at different mean luminances (0.1-130.0 cd/m2) and temporal frequencies (6-26 Hz) were examined in anesthetized LIAIS (N = 17) and C57Bl/6 mice (N = 8).Results: We report maximum rod-driven response with 8-Hz modulation at 0.1 to 0.5 cd/m2, which was almost four times larger than maximum cone-driven response at 8 Hz, 21.5 to 130 cd/m2. Over these optimal luminances, both rod- and cone-driven response amplitudes exhibited low-pass functions with similar frequency resolution limits, albeit their distinct luminance sensitivities. There were, however, two distinguishing features: (1) the frequency-dependent amplitude decrease of rod-driven responses was more profound, and (2) linear relationships describing rod-driven response phases as a function of stimulus frequency were steeper.Conclusions: Employing the silent substitution method with stimuli of appropriate luminance on the LIAIS mouse (as on human observers) increases the specificity, robustness, and scope to which photoreceptor-driven responses can be reliably assayed compared to the standard photoreceptor isolation methods. labels: #Animals#Color Vision#Cone Opsins#Electroretinography#Female#Male#Mesopic Vision#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Photic Stimulation#Photoreceptor Cells, Vertebrate#Vision, Ocular'
b'Purpose: We investigated whether subthreshold retinal phototherapy (SRPT) was associated with recruitment of bone marrow (BM)-derived cells to the neurosensory retina (NSR) and RPE layer.Methods: GFP chimeric mice and wild-type (WT) mice were subjected to SRPT using a slit-lamp infrared laser. Duty cycles of 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20% (0.1 seconds, 250 mW, spot size 50 \xce\xbcm) with 30 applications were placed 50 to 100 \xce\xbcm from the optic disc. In adoptive transfer studies, GFP+ cells were given intravenously immediately after WT mice received SRPT. Immunohistochemistry was done for ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule-1 (IBA-1+), CD45, Griffonia simplicifolia lectin isolectin B4, GFP or cytokeratin). Expression of Ccl2, Il1b, Il6, Hspa1a, Hsp90aa1, Cryab, Hif1a, Cxcl12, and Cxcr4 mRNA and flow cytometry of the NSR and RPE-choroid were performed.Results: Within 12 to 24 hours of SRPT, monocytes were detected in the NSR and RPE-choroid. Detection of reparative progenitors in the RPE occurred at 2 weeks using flow cytometry. Recruitment of GFP+ cells to the RPE layer occurred in a duty cycle-dependent manner in chimeric mice and in mice undergoing adoptive transfer. Hspa1a, Hsp90aa1, and Cryab mRNAs increased in the NSR at 2 hours post laser; Hif1a, Cxcl12, Hspa1a increased at 4 hours in the RPE-choroid; and Ccl2, Il1b, Ifng, and Il6 increased at 12 to 24 hours in the RPE-choroid.Conclusions: SRPT induces monocyte recruitment to the RPE followed by hematopoietic progenitor cell homing at 2 weeks. Recruitment occurs in a duty cycle-dependent manner and potentially could contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of SRPT. labels: #Adoptive Transfer#Animals#Biomarkers#Bone Marrow Cells#Cell Movement#Cells, Cultured#Chemokine CXCL12#Choroid#Female#Flow Cytometry#Green Fluorescent Proteins#Heat-Shock Proteins#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Immunohistochemistry#Laser Therapy#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Monocytes#Phototherapy#Receptors, CXCR4#Retina#Retinal Pigment Epithelium'
b'Purpose: To characterize the density and distribution of the radial peripapillary capillary plexus (RPCP) and its relationship with retinal nerve fiber layer (NFL) thickness in healthy subjects.Methods: Using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT), split-spectrum amplitude decorrelation angiography algorithm and automated montaging, wide-field OCT angiography (OCTA) was used to measure the RPCP capillary density (CD) and NFL thickness. Polar sector-average CD and thickness maps were also created on each eye.Results: Wide-field OCTA (8 \xc3\x97 8 mm) in 10 healthy eyes from 10 subjects demonstrated the distribution of the RPCP throughout the posterior pole. RPCP-CD decreases with distance from the disc, but along the arcuate nerve fiber bundles relatively dense (>half maximum density) RPCP extends more than 5 mm from the disc and includes regions superior to and inferior to the macula. The RPCP-CD and NFL thickness are highly correlated (R2 = 0.85, P<0.001) and fit well with a nonlinear stacked-layer model. The model fit suggests that the RPCP is present when the NFL is thicker than 17.9 \xce\xbcm and reaches a ceiling area density of 84% and that the RPCP has an apparent volume density of 19% at the current instrument transverse resolution. This indicates that capillary overlap can be expected to occur when NFL thickness reaches 40 \xce\xbcm.Conclusions: The wide distribution of dense overlapping RPCP suggests that wider (up to 8 mm vertical and 7 mm horizontal) OCTA scans may be better investigate capillary loss in the early stages of glaucoma or other optic neuropathies. labels: #Adult#Capillaries#Cell Count#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Nerve Fibers#Optic Disk#Retinal Artery#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b"Purpose: To assess possible intraday variability in Bruch's membrane opening-based (BMO) assessment of neuroretinal rim by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) of the optic nerve head (ONH) as well as to evaluate its independence from intraindividual IOP changes.Methods: In this noninterventional, prospective cohort study, 51 consecutively enrolled patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension underwent standardized SD-OCT of the ONH and IOP assessment at two different time points with a time gap of 5 hours on the same day. Random effects models, intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and Bland-Altman plots were used to analyze repeatability of BMO minimum rim width (BMO-MRW) and area (BMO-MRA) and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness measurements.Results: Mean BMO area was 1.86 \xc2\xb1 0.30 mm2. At baseline, mean BMO-MRW was 206.46 \xc2\xb1 0.86 \xce\xbcm, mean BMO-MRA was 0.89 \xc2\xb1 0.34 mm2, and mean RNFL thickness was 71.61 \xc2\xb1 0.20 \xce\xbcm. Within intraindividual measurements, mean difference was 2.95 \xce\xbcm or 1.76% for BMO-MRW, 0.02 mm2 or 2.68% for BMO-MRA, and 1.18 \xce\xbcm or 1.89% for RNFL thickness. Comparing time points, \xce\xb72 was 0.001 (P = 0.757) for RNFL thickness, 0.043 (P = 0.01) for BMO-MRA, and 0.07 (P = 0.06) for BMO-MRW. Intraclass correlation coefficients were greater than 0.994, respectively. Variability of morphometric parameters did not correlate to intraindividual IOP fluctuations.Conclusions: Assessment of BMO-MRW by SD-OCT shows high intraday repeatability, which is comparable to the parameter RNFL thickness. Variability seems not to be driven by typical moderate intraday fluctuations of IOP. The two-dimensional parameter BMO-MRA incorporates a fairly higher intraindividual variability. labels: #Aged#Bruch Membrane#Cohort Studies#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence"
b'Purpose: To investigate the application of optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) in evaluation of geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD).Methods: Patients with GA were prospectively enrolled and studied with blue fundus autofluorescence (FAF), en face structural OCT, and OCT-A. OCT-A images were acquired using a slab of whole choroid, whereas en face structural OCT images were obtained at the ellipsoid zone (EZ), at the choroidal (CH) level, and at the scleral (SC) level. Three readers independently measured the GA extension areas and evaluated the foveal sparing in each examination. Intraobserver/interobserver agreements and agreement between each couple of imaging techniques were assessed.Results: A total of 47 eyes (26 patients, mean age 76 \xc2\xb1 7 years) with GA (mean area using FAF: 8.77 \xc2\xb1 5.00 mm2) were included. Intraobserver and interobserver agreement was excellent for all imaging techniques (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]>0.985), even if en face EZ structural OCT revealed the poorest quality agreement limits. Considering the analysis between each couple of imaging techniques, ICC was excellent between OCT-A compared with FAF (ICC: 0.995), followed by en face structural OCT at CH level (ICC: 0.992), at SC level (ICC: 0.986), and at EZ level (ICC: 0.973). No differences were detected between multifocal and monofocal GA lesions. Considering the evaluation of foveal involvement, lower agreements were disclosed between FAF and all other imaging techniques.Conclusions: OCT-A is a reliable technique for easily visualizing and quantifying GA with the advantages, compared to current imaging techniques, of offering together both structural and blood flow information regarding retinal and choroidal layers and excluding choroidal neovascularization. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Geographic Atrophy#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Observer Variation#Optical Imaging#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: To investigate layer-by-layer changes in retinal thickness and reflectivity regarding the severity grade of acute retinal artery occlusion (RAO) using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT).Methods: This study is a retrospective, observational case-control series that took place in an institutional setting and included 148 eyes from 74 patients diagnosed with acute RAO (central or branch). SD-OCT examinations were taken at baseline. Based on OCT findings, RAO was categorized into three grades (incomplete, subtotal, total). The thickness and reflectivity of selected retinal layers were measured from SD-OCT images. The data were compared across the three grades and against the contralateral eyes (controls). The main outcome measures were thickness and reflectivity of selected retinal layers.Results: The thickness of the inner and middle retinal layers differed significantly across the three RAO groups (P<0.001), whereas the outer retinal layer thickness remained not significantly different. Reflectivity values showed statistically significant differences in the inner, middle, and outer retinal layers, but not in the vitreous body (P<0.001).Conclusions: The reflectivity changes of selected retinal layers differ significantly regarding different grades of RAO. SD-OCT reflectivity measurement may be used as a noninvasive method to estimate the grade of retinal ischemia in RAO. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retina#Retinal Artery Occlusion#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity'
b"Purpose: Fibroblast activation may play an important role in pterygium progression. Synthetic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor \xce\xb3 (PPAR-\xce\xb3) ligands have been shown to be effective antifibrotic agents against transforming growth factor \xce\xb21 (TGF-\xce\xb21) induced fibrosis in several tissues. We aimed to investigate the antifibrotic effects of the PPAR-\xce\xb3 ligand rosiglitazone in pterygium fibroblasts and the underlying mechanisms.Methods: Profibrotic activation was induced by TGF-\xce\xb21 in primary cultured human pterygium fibroblasts and the effect of rosiglitazone treatment on \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1-SMA), and extra cellular matrix proteins synthesis was detected by western blotting, real-time PCR, immunostaining, and flow cytometry. Pharmaceutical inhibition of PPAR-\xce\xb3 receptor was used to determine the dependency or otherwise of rosiglitazone's action on PPAR-\xce\xb3 signaling. Major signaling pathways downstream of TGF-\xce\xb21 were investigated by western blotting to assess their possible association with rosiglitazone's effect. Cell viability and apoptosis were investigated to assess drug-induced cytotoxicity, and the effect of rosiglitazone treatment on cell migration was further determined.Results: \xce\xb1-SMA and fibronectin synthesis induced by TGF-\xce\xb21 were suppressed by rosiglitazone treatment in a dose-dependent manner. Rosiglitazone also inhibited intrinsic TGF-\xce\xb21 expression. Smad2/3, ERK1/2, and P38 pathways were activated in response to TGF-\xce\xb21. Rosiglitazone suppressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced P38 MAPK activation, while ERK1/2 and Smad2/3 signaling remained unaffected. The observed antifibrotic effect of rosiglitazone was not affected by the PPAR-\xce\xb3 antagonist GW9662, indicating it is not PPAR-\xce\xb3 dependent. Rosiglitazone also inhibited the proliferation and migration of pterygium fibroblasts.Conclusions: Rosiglitazone suppresses TGF-\xce\xb21-induced myofibroblast activation and extra cellular matrix synthesis in pterygium fibroblasts at least partly through the modulation of the p38 MAPK pathway. labels: #Actins#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cells, Cultured#Extracellular Matrix Proteins#Fibrosis#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Myofibroblasts#PPAR gamma#Pterygium#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Signal Transduction#Thiazolidinediones#Transforming Growth Factor beta1#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases"
b"Purpose: To compare morphologic changes on en face images derived from wide-field swept-source optical coherence tomography (ssOCT) to hypo- and hyperautofluorescent (hypoAF, hyperAF) areas on short-wavelength autofluorescence (SW-AF), and near-infrared (NIR)-AF in recessive Stargardt disease (STGD1).Methods: Wide-field ssOCT cube scans were obtained from 16 patients (16 eyes). Averaged B-scans and SW-AF images were obtained using Spectralis HRA+OCT. NIR-AF images were obtained from 6 eyes. The inner/outer segment (IS/OS), OS/RPE, and RPE/Bruch's membrane boundaries were segmented, and en face slab images generated. A subRPE slab image was used to measure the abnormal RPE area, and an IS/OS slab image, the IS/OS junction loss area. These were compared to hypo- and abnormal SW-AF areas, and hypoNIR-AF areas. A preRPE(OS) slab image was used to evaluate the spatial and intraretinal locations of flecks.Results: For all eyes, RPE atrophy was visualized as a central hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab, and IS/OS junction loss as an abnormal reflective area on the IS/OS slab; the latter was significantly larger (P = 0.04). There was good agreement between the hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab image and hypoSW-AF area, and between the abnormal reflective area on the IS/OS slab and hypo-hyperSW-AF area; the hypoNIR-AF area indicated that the hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab underestimated RPE atrophy. The spatial locations of hyperreflective flecks on the en face preRPE(OS) slab image corresponded to those on the SW-AF images.Conclusions: Wide-field en face OCT imaging has the potential to be a clinically useful tool for the management of STGD1. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Atrophy#Bruch Membrane#Child#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Optical Imaging#Retinal Photoreceptor Cell Inner Segment#Retinal Photoreceptor Cell Outer Segment#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult"
b'Purpose: We determined whether there is relative sparing of pupil function in glaucoma patients with normal pressures compared to those with high pressures.Methods: A cross-sectional study was done of 68 patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG): 38 had normal IOPs on all-day phasing before treatment (never>21 mm Hg), with confirmed progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy (NTG) and 30 had glaucomatous optic neuropathy associated with elevated intraocular pressures (>25 mm Hg; HP-POAG). The relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) was quantified with the RAPDx device, and mean deviation of visual field loss was obtained from reliable Humphrey visual fields. Outcomes measures evaluated were difference in slope between NTG and HP-POAG when plotting: (1) RAPD score against difference in mean deviation (MD) between eyes, and (2) RAPD score against difference in RNFL thickness between eyes.Results: The slopes for magnitude of RAPD versus difference in MD were -0.06 (95% confidence interval [CI], -0.076, -0.044) for patients with NTG and -0.08 (95% CI, -0.109, -0.067) for those with HP-POAG. Fitting the interaction term showed a statistically significant difference between the slopes (0.023; 95% CI [0.0017, 0.0541]; P value = 0.037; HP-POAG reference group). Thus, for difference in MD, the slope for patients with NTG was flatter than the slope for those with HP-POAG.Conclusions: Glaucoma patients with NTG have a lesser RAPD for a given level of intereye difference of HVF MD, compared to patients with high IOPs. This suggests that damage to intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) differs between the normal and high-pressure forms of open-angle glaucoma (OAG), and supports the theory that mitochondrial optic neuropathies may have a role in the group of diagnoses currently termed normal tension glaucoma. labels: #Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Dark Adaptation#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Middle Aged#Ocular Hypertension#Pupil#Pupil Disorders#Tonometry, Ocular'
b'Purpose: To compare the sectoral structure-function relationships in glaucoma between two structural parameters, vessel density (VD) and thickness, in the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL).Methods: Optical coherence tomography (OCT) angiography (AngioVue/RTVue-XR) for VD and OCT (RS-3000) for peripapillary RNFL thickness were performed in 129 eyes from 129 subjects (94 glaucoma, 17 glaucoma suspects, and 18 normal eyes). Humphrey visual field (VF) tests were performed using a SITA standard 24-2 program. Sectoral structure-function relationships based on the Garway-Heath map were compared between VD and thickness using a semipartial correlation coefficient (sr) and partial residual plots determined by multiple linear regression models controlling for the effects of sex, age, axial length, disc area, beta- and gamma- parapapillary atrophy (PPA) zones, and signal strength index (SSI).Results: For all VF sectors, the sr2 of VD was largest when the VD sector corresponded to the VF sector (sr2: 0.17-0.39). In contrast, in only three sectors was the sr2 of thickness largest when the thickness sector corresponded to the VF sector (sr2: 0.02-0.34): the inferior temporal, temporal, and superior temporal sectors. The partial residual plots against VD showed more linear relationships with VF sensitivity than those against thickness in the qualitative evaluation of fitting by locally weighted scatterplot smoothing. Eyes with larger SSI had higher VD, whereas eyes with a larger extension of the PPA zone into the VD measurement area had lower VD.Conclusions: Peripapillary RNFL VD and thickness have different characteristic sectoral structure-function relationships in glaucoma. labels: #Axial Length, Eye#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Gonioscopy#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Tonometry, Ocular#Visual Field Tests#Visual Fields'
b'Purpose: To investigate surface expression of CD11b and CD200 on circulating monocytes in patients with polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV).Methods: This was a prospective case-control study of patients with PCV (n = 27), age-matched healthy controls (n = 27), and patients with neovascular AMD (n = 49). All participants underwent a comprehensive ocular examination. Fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography were performed in patients suspected of neovascular AMD or PCV. Polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy was angiographically categorized into those with a strong presence of a branching vascular network (BVN) (type 1) or with a faint/no clear presence of a BVN (type 2). Fresh venous blood was stained with fluorescent antibodies for flow cytometric analyses. We compared the percentages of CD11b+, CD200+, and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes between groups of diagnosis and between different angiographic subtypes of PCV.Results: Overall, CD11b+ monocytes were both increased in patients with PCV and neovascular AMD. CD200+ and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes were increased in patients with neovascular AMD. An age-related increase in CD11b+CD200+ monocytes was absent in patients with PCV and neovascular AMD. Patients with PCV type 1 had significantly higher CD11b+, CD200+, and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes, whereas patients with PCV type 2 had levels similar to that in healthy controls.Conclusions: We found that PCV is immunologically heterogeneous with significant differences between angiographic subtypes. Increased CD11b+ and CD200+ monocytes in those with a strong presence of BVN indicate that BVN development may be associated with retinal injury and a VEGF-mediated process that is either reflected or propelled by systemic changes in monocytes. labels: #Aged#Antigens, CD#Biomarkers#CD11b Antigen#Case-Control Studies#Choroidal Neovascularization#Coloring Agents#Female#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Indocyanine Green#Macular Degeneration#Male#Monocytes#Polyps#Prospective Studies'
b'Purpose: Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) implies that transient ischemia in a limb can affect perfusion in a target organ elsewhere in the body. The changes in perfusion can be assumed to be paralleled by changes in the vessel diameters in the target organ. It remains to be elucidated whether the diameter of normal retinal vessels can be used as a marker of RIC in vivo.Methods: In 20 normal persons aged 20 to 31 years the Dynamic Vessel Analyzer (DVA) was used to measure the resting diameter and diameter changes during isometric exercise and flicker stimulation before, immediately after, and 1 hour after RIC induced by transient ischemia in the left arm.Results: The baseline diameter of retinal venules was reduced nonsignificantly immediately after (P = 0.07) and significantly 1 hour after RIC (P = 0.009), whereas the baseline diameter of arterioles was unaffected by the intervention (P = 0.61). Arterial constriction induced by isometric exercise was significantly reduced immediately after RIC (P = 0.04), but not 1 hour after RIC (P = 0.99). None of the other diameter responses were affected by RIC (P = 0.22 for all comparisons).Conclusions: The diameter of retinal vessels might potentially be a marker of ischemic conditioning in the body in general. The effect of RIC on retinal vascular diseases where ischemia is a part of the pathogenesis should be investigated. labels: #Adult#Arm#Blood Pressure#Brachial Artery#Exercise#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Ischemia#Ischemic Preconditioning#Male#Photography#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Vasodilation#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: Induction of focal retinal detachment (RD) for subretinal delivery of stem cells and gene therapy is increasingly common. In order to determine if this procedure has an adverse impact on the retina, we use spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) to evaluate the pre- and postoperative retinal anatomy of the incidentally detached normal retina surrounding large submacular hemorrhages (SMH) during surgical displacement procedures.Methods: Retrospective, observational study of human subjects with monocular SMH evaluated before and after surgical displacement using clinical exam, fundus photography, and SD-OCT. Manual measurements of the inner retinal thickness (IRT), outer retinal thickness (ORT), and full retinal thickness (FRT) were made in regions involving the SMH and surrounding normal retina. Comparison of retinal thickness measurements was made using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test.Results: Seven eyes were included in this study. All eyes successfully underwent surgical displacement of SMH. Visual acuity improved in 6/7 subjects and was unchanged in the remaining subject. Incidental RD of the normal retinal regions surrounding the SMH did not cause any significant change in IRT, ORT, or FRT that was detectable by SD-OCT. In contrast, mean FRT overlying regions with SMH was significantly greater before surgery compared to after displacement of SMH or normal adjacent retina.Conclusions: Surgically induced focal RD does not cause detectable retinal changes in the incidentally detached normal retina surrounding large SMH. Therefore, surgical induction of focal RD should not be considered to have the same adverse impact on the retina as pathologic RD. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retina#Retinal Detachment#Retinal Hemorrhage#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Vitrectomy'
b'Purpose: To elucidate functions of wild-type myocilin, a secreted glycoprotein associated with glaucoma.Methods: Lysates of mouse eyes were used for immunoprecipitation with affinity-purified antibodies against mouse myocilin. Shotgun proteomic analysis was used for the identification of proteins interacting with myocilin. Colocalization of myocilin and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3) in different eye structures was investigated by a multiplex fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunofluorescent labeling with subsequent confocal microscopy. Matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) activity assay was used to test effects of myocilin on TIMP3 inhibitory action.Results: TIMP3 was identified by a shotgun proteomic analysis as a protein that was coimmunoprecipitated with myocilin from eye lysates of wild-type and transgenic mice expressing elevated levels of mouse myocilin but not from lysates of transgenic mice expressing mutated mouse myocilin. Interaction of myocilin and TIMP3 was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation of myocilin and TIMP3 from HEK293 cells transiently transfected with cDNAs encoding these proteins. The olfactomedin domain of myocilin is essential for interaction with TIMP3. In the eye, the main sites of myocilin and TIMP3 colocalization are the trabecular meshwork, sclera, and choroid. Using purified proteins, it has been shown that myocilin markedly enhanced the inhibitory activity of TIMP3 toward MMP2.Conclusions: Myocilin may serve as a modulator of TIMP3 activity via interactions with the myocilin olfactomedin domain. Our data imply that in the case of MYOCILIN null or some glaucoma-causing mutations, inhibitory activity of TIMP3 toward MMP2 might be reduced, mimicking deleterious mutations in the TIMP3 gene. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Ciliary Body#Cytoskeletal Proteins#Eye Proteins#Female#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Gene Expression#Glycoproteins#HEK293 Cells#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Confocal#Proteomics#RNA, Messenger#Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-3#Trabecular Meshwork#Transfection'
b'Purpose: A small, full-field flicker electroretinogram (ERG) recording system was recently developed to record flicker ERGs without mydriasis (RETeval). The device delivers a stimulus with constant retinal illuminance by adjusting the retinal luminance to compensate for changes in the pupillary area. The purpose of this study was to determine what factors affect the fundamental components of the flicker ERGs recorded by RETeval in young healthy subjects.Methods: Flicker ERGs were recorded with the RETeval system from 150 eyes of 150 young healthy subjects (age, 20-29 years). Univariate and multivariate linear regression analyses were performed to identify the factors that affected the implicit times and amplitudes of the fundamental component of the flicker ERGs. The independent variables included age, sex, refractive error, axial length, and pupillary area.Results: Multivariate regression analyses indicated that a longer axial length (P = 0.03) and larger pupillary area (P = 0.008) were independent factors that were significantly associated with longer implicit times of the fundamental component of the flicker ERGs. Multivariate regression analyses also showed that the female sex (P = 0.03) was an independent factor, which was significantly associated with larger amplitude fundamental component of the flicker ERGs.Conclusions: These results indicate that the fundamental components of the RETeval flicker ERGs are significantly affected by the axial length, pupillary area, and sex of young healthy subjects. The results also suggest that it would be better to compensate for the Stiles-Crawford effect when flicker ERGs are recorded with natural pupils. labels: #Adult#Axial Length, Eye#Electroretinography#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Lighting#Male#Photic Stimulation#Prospective Studies#Pupil#Retina#Retinal Cone Photoreceptor Cells#Sex Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of hereditary retinal degeneration in which mutations commonly result in the initial phase of rod cell death followed by gradual cone cell death. The mechanisms by which the mutations lead to photoreceptor cell death in RP have not been clearly elucidated. There is currently no effective treatment for RP. The purpose of this work was to explore iron chelation therapy for improving cone survival and function in the rd10 mouse model of RP.Methods: Two iron-chelating drugs, 5-(4-(2-hydroxyethyl) piperazin-1-yl (methyl)-8-hydroxyquinoline (VK28) and its chimeric derivative 5-(N-methyl-N-propargyaminomethyl)-quinoline-8-oldihydrochloride (VAR10303), were injected intraperitoneally to rd10 mice every other day starting from postnatal day 14. We investigate the effects of the two compounds on cone rescue at three time points, using a combination of immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and a series of visual function tests.Results: VK28 and VAR10303 treatments partially rescued cones, and significantly improved visual function in rd10 mice. Moreover, we showed that the neuroprotective effects of VK28 and VAR10303 were correlated to inhibition of neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that downregulation of NF-kB and p53 is likely to be the mechanisms by which proinflammatory mediators and apoptosis are reduced in the rd10 retina, respectively.Conclusions: VK28 and VAR10303 provided partial histologic and functional rescue of cones in RD10 mice. Our study demonstrated that iron chelation therapy might represent an effective therapeutic strategy for RP patients. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cell Survival#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Hydroxyquinolines#Immunohistochemistry#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Iron Chelating Agents#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#NF-kappa B#Neuroprotective Agents#Oxidative Stress#Piperazines#Quinolines#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Retinal Cone Photoreceptor Cells#Retinitis Pigmentosa#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'Purpose: The actin cytoskeleton of trabecular meshwork (TM) cells plays a role in regulating aqueous humor outflow. Many studies have investigated stress fibers, but F-actin also assembles into other supramolecular structures including filopodia. Recently, specialized filopodia called tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) have been described, which communicate molecular signals and organelles directly between cells. Here, we investigate TNT formation by TM cells.Methods: Human TM cells were labeled separately with the fluorescent dyes, DiO and DiD, or with mitochondrial dye. Fixed or live TM cells were imaged using confocal microscopy. Image analysis software was used to track fluorescent vesicles and count the number and length of filopodia. The number of fluorescently labeled vesicles transferred between cells was counted in response to specific inhibitors of the actin cytoskeleton. Human TM tissue was stained with phalloidin.Results: Live-cell confocal imaging of cultured TM cells showed transfer of fluorescently labeled vesicles and mitochondria via TNTs. In TM tissue, a long (160 \xce\xbcm) actin-rich cell process bridged an intertrabecular space and did not adhere to the substratum. Treatment of TM cells with CK-666, an Arp2/3 inhibitor, significantly decreased the number and length of filopodia, decreased transfer of fluorescently labeled vesicles and induced thick stress fibers compared to vehicle control. Conversely, inhibiting stress fibers using Y27632 increased transfer of vesicles and induced long cell processes.Conclusions: Identification of TNTs provides a means by which TM cells can directly communicate with each other over long distances. This may be particularly important to overcome limitations of diffusion-based signaling in the aqueous humor fluid environment. labels: #Actin-Related Protein 2-3 Complex#Actins#Adolescent#Adult#Amides#Cell Communication#Child#Child, Preschool#Enzyme Inhibitors#Fluorescent Dyes#Humans#Indoles#Microscopy, Confocal#Middle Aged#Nanotubes#Pseudopodia#Pyridines#Signal Transduction#Staining and Labeling#Trabecular Meshwork#Transport Vesicles'
b'Purpose: The aim of this article is to report the investigation of the structural features of ABCA4, a protein associated with a genetic retinal disease. A new database collecting knowledge of ABCA4 structure may facilitate predictions about the possible functional consequences of gene mutations observed in clinical practice.Methods: In order to correlate structural and functional effects of the observed mutations, the structure of mouse P-glycoprotein was used as a template for homology modeling. The obtained structural information and genetic data are the basis of our relational database (ABCA4Database).Results: Sequence variability among all ABCA4-deposited entries was calculated and reported as Shannon entropy score at the residue level. The three-dimensional model of ABCA4 structure was used to locate the spatial distribution of the observed variable regions. Our predictions from structural in silico tools were able to accurately link the functional effects of mutations to phenotype. The development of the ABCA4Database gathers all the available genetic and structural information, yielding a global view of the molecular basis of some retinal diseases.Conclusions: ABCA4 modeled structure provides a molecular basis on which to analyze protein sequence mutations related to genetic retinal disease in order to predict the risk of retinal disease across all possible ABCA4 mutations. Additionally, our ABCA4 predicted structure is a good starting point for the creation of a new data analysis model, appropriate for precision medicine, in order to develop a deeper knowledge network of the disease and to improve the management of patients. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters#Amino Acid Sequence#Computer Simulation#DNA Mutational Analysis#Databases, Factual#Genetic Therapy#Humans#Models, Molecular#Molecular Conformation#Molecular Sequence Data#Mutation#Phenotype#Protein Folding#Protein Structure, Tertiary#Retinal Diseases'
b'Purpose: To characterize the clinical and biological properties of biodegradable collagen matrices (BCMs) for possible glaucoma drainage device implantation.Methods: A total of 68 refractory glaucoma eyes, followed up postoperatively for at least 6 months, were consecutively enrolled after retrospective chart review. The BCM-augmented Ahmed valve implantations (BAAVI) using our Ologen-6 and Ologen-7 valves were performed and compared with a conventional method. Complete surgical success was defined as an IOP of \xe2\x89\xa421 mm Hg (IOP 1) or \xe2\x89\xa417 mm Hg (IOP 2) without antiglaucoma medications. Qualified success was defined as an IOP \xe2\x89\xa421 mm Hg with or without antiglaucoma medications. The biological properties of each BCM were assessed by enzymatic degradation rates via collagenase under ocular physiological conditions.Results: The mean ages and preoperative IOPs were similar for the groups. In the conventional, BAAVI with Ologen-6, and BAAVI with Ologen-7 groups, complete success rates with target IOP 1 were 29.2%, 40.0%, and 66.7%; those with target IOP 2 were 12.5%, 30.0%, and 45.8%; qualified success rates were 45.8%, 55.0%, and 75.0%, respectively. The enzymatic degradation rate of Ologen-7 was significantly slower than that of Ologen-6 (12.5 \xc3\x97 10-3 vs. 28.8 \xc3\x97 10-3).Conclusions: The surgical success rate was highest in the Ologen-7 BAAVI group, with the lowest dependency on postoperative antiglaucoma medication use compared with the conventional and Ologen-6 BAAVI groups. The clinical results correlated with the different biological and physicochemical properties based on the degree of enzymatic degradation and on the structural morphology. labels: #Absorbable Implants#Collagen#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Glaucoma#Glaucoma Drainage Implants#Glycosaminoglycans#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Prosthesis Implantation#Retrospective Studies#Suture Techniques#Tonometry, Ocular#Treatment Outcome#Visual Acuity#Wound Healing'
b'Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine how the architecture of the lamina cribrosa (LC) microstructure, including the shape and size of the lamina pores, influences the IOP-induced deformation of the neural tissues within the LC pores using computational modeling.Methods: We built seven specimen-specific finite element models of LC microstructure with distinct nonlinear anisotropic properties for LC beams and neural tissues based on histological sections from three sheep eyes. Changes in shape (aspect ratio and convexity) and size (area and perimeter length) due to IOP-induced hoop stress were calculated for 128 LC pores. Multivariate linear regression was used to determine if pore shape and size were correlated with the strain in the pores. We also compared the microstructure models to a homogenized model built following previous approaches.Results: The LC microstructure resulted in focal tensile, compressive, and shear strains in the neural tissues of the LC that were not predicted by homogenized models. IOP-induced hoop stress caused pores to become larger and more convex; however, pore aspect ratio did not change consistently. Peak tensile strains within the pores were well predicted by a linear regression model considering the initial convexity (negative correlation, P<0.001), aspect ratio (positive correlation, P<0.01), and area (negative correlation, P<0.01). Significant correlations were also found when considering the deformed shape and size of the LC pores.Conclusions: The deformation of the LC neural tissues was largely dependent on the collagenous LC beams. Simple measures of LC pore shape and area provided good estimates of neural tissue biomechanical insult. labels: #Animals#Computer Simulation#Finite Element Analysis#Intraocular Pressure#Optic Disk#Optic Nerve#Sheep#Stress, Mechanical'
b"Purpose: To identify microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), using genetic data. MiRNAs are small noncoding RNAs that posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression. Genetic variants in miRNAs or miRNA-binding sites within gene 3'-untranslated regions (3'UTRs) are expected to affect miRNA function and contribute to disease risk.Methods: Data from the recent genome-wide association studies on intraocular pressure, vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR), cupa area and disc area were used to investigate the association of miRNAs with POAG endophenotypes. Putative targets of the associated miRNAs were studied according to their association with POAG and tested in cell line by transfection experiments for regulation by the miRNAs.Results: Of 411 miRNA variants, rs12803915:A/G in the terminal loop of pre-miR-612 and rs2273626:A/C in the seed sequence of miR-4707 were significantly associated with VCDR and cup area (P values<1.2 \xc3\x97 10-4). The first variant is demonstrated to increase the miR-612 expression. We showed that the second variant does not affect the miR-4707 biogenesis, but reduces the binding of miR-4707-3p to CARD10, a gene known to be involved in glaucoma. Moreover, of 72,052 miRNA-binding-site variants, 47 were significantly associated with four POAG endophenotypes (P value<6.9 \xc3\x97 10-6). Of these, we highlighted 10 variants that are more likely to affect miRNA-mediated gene regulation in POAG. These include rs3217992 and rs1063192, which have been shown experimentally to affect miR-138-3p- and miR-323b-5p-mediated regulation of CDKN2B.Conclusions: We identified a number of miRNAs that are associated with POAG endophenotypes. The identified miRNAs and their target genes are candidates for future studies on miRNA-related therapies for POAG. labels: #Base Sequence#Binding Sites#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#MicroRNAs#Molecular Sequence Data#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide"
b'Purpose: The murine double minute (MDM)2 is a critical negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor, and MDM2 SNP309G is associated with a higher risk of proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR); in addition, the MDM2 T309G created using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/associated endonuclease (Cas)9 enhances normal rabbit vitreous-induced expression of MDM2 and survival of primary human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE) cells in vitro. The goal of this study was to determine whether this MDM2 T309G contributes to the development of experimental PVR.Methods: hRPE cells expressing MDM2 T309G or T309T only were treated with vitreous from human PVR donors (HV). The expression of MDM2 and p53 in the treated cells was examined by Western blot. The in vitro vitreous-induced cellular responses, such as contraction were assessed, and PVR was induced by intravitreal injection of the hRPE cells with MDM2 T309G or T309T only into rabbit eyes.Results: Western blot analyses indicated that treatment of hRPE cells with HV led to a significant increase (1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.2-fold) in the expression of MDM2 and a significant decrease in p53 in the cells expressing MDM2 T309G compared with those with MDM2 T309T. In addition, HV promoted contraction of the hRPE cells expressing MDM2 T309G significantly more than those with MDM2 T309T only. Furthermore, MDM2 T309G in the hRPE cells enhanced the development of PVR in a rabbit model.Conclusions: The MDM2 SNP309 in RPE cells enhances their potential of PVR pathogenesis. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cell Count#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Intravitreal Injections#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2#RNA, Messenger#Rabbits#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Vitreoretinopathy, Proliferative#Vitreous Body'
b'Purpose: The lens is a radiosensitive organ. Any dose of cephalic irradiation can give rise to radiation-induced cataracts. Contrary to other forms of radiotherapy, proton therapy (PT) can spare all or part of the lens due to accurate dose deposition. We investigated whether a lens-sparing approach was relevant to avoid cataracts in uveal melanoma patients.Methods: Patients were referred for PT from onco-ophthalmologists of private and academic institutions. Patients without preexisting cataracts or implants were entered in a prospective database. Dose thresholds responsible for cataracts were investigated in volumes of lens or lens periphery. Lens opacifications and de novo vision-impairing cataracts (VICs) had biannual follow up by ophthalmologists blinded to lens dose. Correlations between dose-volume relationships and VICs were assessed using univariate/multivariate regressions.Results: Between 1991 and 2015, 1696 uveal melanoma patients were consecutively treated with PT. After a median follow up of 48 months, 14.4% and 8.7% of patients had cataracts and VIC within median times of 19 and 28 months, respectively. Median values of mean lens and lens periphery doses were 1.1 (radiobiologically effective [RBE] dose in photon-equivalent grays [GyRBE]) and 6.5 GyRBE, respectively. The lens received no dose in 25% of the patients. At an irradiated lens volume of \xe2\x89\xa45%, there was no significantly increased risk for VIC below a dose of 10 GyRBE.Conclusions: A lens-sparing approach is feasible and results not only in reduced need for cataract surgery but also in better fundus-based tumor control. Reassessment of radioprotection rules for lens dose thresholds may follow. labels: #Cataract#Female#Humans#Incidence#Lens, Crystalline#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Proton Therapy#Radiation Injuries#Radiotherapy Dosage#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Uveal Neoplasms'
b'Purpose: Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults and approximately half of those diagnosed will die of metastasis. This study investigates whether UM progression is driven by a subpopulation of stem-like cells, termed "cancer stem cells" (CSCs).Methods: Expression of postulated stem cell markers aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), CD44, and CD133 was analyzed in UM cell lines and primary UM short-term cultures (STCs) established from tumor samples. Additionally, the notion of a "cellular hierarchy" within UM was investigated. Finally, the phenomenon of phenotypic plasticity in response to environmental factors was explored.Results: We demonstrate that expression of ALDH, CD44, and CD133 does not select for a subpopulation of stem-like cells in either UM cell lines or UM STCs. Furthermore, there is an absence of a cellular hierarchy in cell lines and all cells in culture are able to drive tumor progression. Last, we show that established UM cell lines and UM STCs are plastic in nature and switch their phenotype in response to environmental stimuli.Conclusions: We hypothesize that this capacity to undergo phenotypic plasticity may be a consequence of neural crest lineage and renders the exploration of the CSC hypothesis extremely challenging in UM. labels: #AC133 Antigen#Aldehyde Dehydrogenase#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Plasticity#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Hyaluronan Receptors#Melanoma#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Phenotype#Tumor Stem Cell Assay#Uveal Neoplasms'
b"Purpose: The photopic negative response (PhNR) is a slow negative component of a flash photopic full-field ERG that has been shown to be specific for retinal ganglion cell (RGC) activity. Direct evaluation of RGC function is desirable in patients with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) in which the loss of central acuity can make it difficult to monitor patients with standard metrics. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of PhNR as an objective noninvasive clinical metric in LHON.Methods: Full-field photopic ERG recordings were collected in subjects with the mt.11778G>A/ND4 LHON mutation using a red on blue stimulus. The PhNR was identified using a computer-based automated detection system, and data were manually examined to remove movement artifacts.Results: The PhNR amplitude was compared between controls (n = 13), carriers (n = 17), and affected (n = 6). Mean PhNR amplitude decreased significantly across groups (P<0.0001). Post hoc Tukey's test revealed a significant decrease in PhNR amplitude between carriers and controls (P<0.05) and between carriers and affected (P<0.01).Conclusions: We are able to demonstrate that the PhNR amplitude is significantly decreased in patients affected by LHON compared to carriers in a well-described pedigree. Surprisingly, there was also a decrease in PhNR in carriers, suggesting potential subclinical RGC dysfunction in some carriers. This is important in patients affected with LHON who typically have a dense central scotoma. The PhNR may be a useful objective outcome measure for future clinical trials. labels: #Adult#Color Vision#DNA Mutational Analysis#DNA, Mitochondrial#Electroretinography#Female#Heterozygote#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Optic Atrophy, Hereditary, Leber#Photic Stimulation#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Visual Acuity#Visual Fields"
b"See Legrain (doi:10.1093/awx188) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Some patients with complex regional pain syndrome report that movements of the affected limb are slow, more effortful, and lack automaticity. These symptoms have been likened to the syndrome that sometimes follows brain injury called hemispatial neglect, in which patients exhibit attentional impairments and problems with movements affecting the contralesional side of the body and space. Psychophysical testing of patients with complex regional pain syndrome has found evidence for spatial biases when judging visual targets distanced at 2 m, but not in directions that indicate reduced attention to the affected side. In contrast, when judging visual or tactile stimuli presented on their own body surface, or pictures of hands and feet within arm's reach, patients with complex regional pain syndrome exhibited a bias away from the affected side. What is not yet known is whether patients with complex regional pain syndrome only have biased attention for bodily-specific information in the space within arm's reach, or whether they also show a bias for information that is not associated with the body, suggesting a more generalized attention deficit. Using a temporal order judgement task, we found that patients with complex regional pain syndrome processed visual stimuli more slowly on the affected side (relative to the unaffected side) when the lights were projected onto a blank surface (i.e. when no bodily information was visible), and when the lights were projected onto the dorsal surfaces of their uncrossed hands. However, with the arms crossed (such that the left and right lights projected onto the right and left hands, respectively), patients' responses were no different than controls. These results provide the first demonstration of a generalized attention bias away from the affected side of space in complex regional pain syndrome patients that is not specifically related to bodily information. They also suggest a separate and additional bias of visual attention away from the affected hand. The strength of attention bias was predicted by scores on a self-report measure of body perception distortion; but not by pain intensity, time since diagnosis, or affected body side (left or right). At an individual level, those patients whose upper limbs were most affected had a higher incidence of inattention than those whose lower limbs were most affected. However, at a group level, affected limb (upper or lower) did not predict bias magnitude; nor did three measures designed to assess possible asymmetries in the distribution of movements across space. It is concluded that inattention in near space in complex regional pain syndrome may arise in parallel with a distorted perception of the body.10.1093/brain/awx152_video1awx152media15495542665001. labels: #Adult#Aged#Attentional Bias#Case-Control Studies#Complex Regional Pain Syndromes#Female#Functional Laterality#Humans#Judgment#Male#Middle Aged#Space Perception#Visual Perception#Young Adult"
b"Patients with Alzheimer's disease can present with different clinical phenotypes. Individuals with late-onset Alzheimer's disease (>65 years) typically present with medial temporal lobe neurodegeneration and predominantly amnestic symptomatology, while patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease (<65 years) exhibit greater neocortical involvement associated with a clinical presentation including dyspraxia, executive dysfunction, or visuospatial impairment. We recruited 20 patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, 21 with late-onset Alzheimer's disease, three with prodromal early-onset Alzheimer's disease and 13 with prodromal late-onset Alzheimer's disease, as well as 30 cognitively healthy elderly controls, that had undergone 18F-AV-1451 tau positron emission tomography and structural magnetic resonance imaging to explore whether early- and late-onset Alzheimer's disease exhibit differential regional tau pathology and atrophy patterns. Strong associations of lower age at symptom onset with higher 18F-AV-1451 uptake were observed in several neocortical regions, while higher age did not yield positive associations in neither patient group. Comparing patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease with controls resulted in significantly higher 18F-AV-1451 retention throughout the neocortex, while comparing healthy controls with late-onset Alzheimer's disease patients yielded a distinct pattern of higher 18F-AV-1451 retention, predominantly confined to temporal lobe regions. When compared against each other, the early-onset Alzheimer's disease group exhibited greater uptake than the late-onset group in prefrontal and premotor, as well as in inferior parietal cortex. These preliminary findings indicate that age may constitute an important contributor to Alzheimer's disease heterogeneity highlighting the potential of tau positron emission tomography to capture phenotypic variation across patients with Alzheimer's disease. labels: #Age of Onset#Aged#Aging#Alzheimer Disease#Atrophy#Carbolines#Case-Control Studies#Cerebral Cortex#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroimaging#Positron-Emission Tomography#Prodromal Symptoms#Tauopathies#tau Proteins"
b'See Schiff (doi:10.1093/awx209) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Patients with acute severe traumatic brain injury may recover consciousness before self-expression. Without behavioural evidence of consciousness at the bedside, clinicians may render an inaccurate prognosis, increasing the likelihood of withholding life-sustaining therapies or denying rehabilitative services. Task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography techniques have revealed covert consciousness in the chronic setting, but these techniques have not been tested in the intensive care unit. We prospectively enrolled 16 patients admitted to the intensive care unit for acute severe traumatic brain injury to test two hypotheses: (i) in patients who lack behavioural evidence of language expression and comprehension, functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography detect command-following during a motor imagery task (i.e. cognitive motor dissociation) and association cortex responses during language and music stimuli (i.e. higher-order cortex motor dissociation); and (ii) early responses to these paradigms are associated with better 6-month outcomes on the Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended. Patients underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging on post-injury Day 9.2 \xc2\xb1 5.0 and electroencephalography on Day 9.8 \xc2\xb1 4.6. At the time of imaging, behavioural evaluation with the Coma Recovery Scale-Revised indicated coma (n = 2), vegetative state (n = 3), minimally conscious state without language (n = 3), minimally conscious state with language (n = 4) or post-traumatic confusional state (n = 4). Cognitive motor dissociation was identified in four patients, including three whose behavioural diagnosis suggested a vegetative state. Higher-order cortex motor dissociation was identified in two additional patients. Complete absence of responses to language, music and motor imagery was only observed in coma patients. In patients with behavioural evidence of language function, responses to language and music were more frequently observed than responses to motor imagery (62.5-80% versus 33.3-42.9%). Similarly, in 16 matched healthy subjects, responses to language and music were more frequently observed than responses to motor imagery (87.5-100% versus 68.8-75.0%). Except for one patient who died in the intensive care unit, all patients with cognitive motor dissociation and higher-order cortex motor dissociation recovered beyond a confusional state by 6 months. However, 6-month outcomes were not associated with early functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography responses for the entire cohort. These observations suggest that functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography can detect command-following and higher-order cortical function in patients with acute severe traumatic brain injury. Early detection of covert consciousness and cortical responses in the intensive care unit could alter time-sensitive decisions about withholding life-sustaining therapies. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Case-Control Studies#Consciousness#Early Diagnosis#Electroencephalography#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Glasgow Outcome Scale#Humans#Imagination#Language#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Music#Persistent Vegetative State#Young Adult'
b"Individuals with schizophrenia typically suffer a range of cognitive deficits, including prominent deficits in working memory and executive function. These difficulties are strongly predictive of functional outcomes, but there is a paucity of effective therapeutic interventions targeting these deficits. Transcranial direct current stimulation is a novel neuromodulatory technique with emerging evidence of potential pro-cognitive effects; however, there is limited understanding of its mechanism. This was a double-blind randomized sham controlled pilot study of transcranial direct current stimulation on a working memory (n-back) and executive function (Stroop) task in 28 individuals with schizophrenia using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Study participants received 30 min of real or sham transcranial direct current stimulation applied to the left frontal cortex. The 'real' and 'sham' groups did not differ in online working memory task performance, but the transcranial direct current stimulation group demonstrated significant improvement in performance at 24 h post-transcranial direct current stimulation. Transcranial direct current stimulation was associated with increased activation in the medial frontal cortex beneath the anode; showing a positive correlation with consolidated working memory performance 24 h post-stimulation. There was reduced activation in the left cerebellum in the transcranial direct current stimulation group, with no change in the middle frontal gyrus or parietal cortices. Improved performance on the executive function task was associated with reduced activity in the anterior cingulate cortex. Transcranial direct current stimulation modulated functional activation in local task-related regions, and in more distal nodes in the network. Transcranial direct current stimulation offers a potential novel approach to altering frontal cortical activity and exerting pro-cognitive effects in schizophrenia. labels: #Adult#Cerebellum#Double-Blind Method#Executive Function#Female#Frontal Lobe#Gyrus Cinguli#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Memory, Short-Term#Pilot Projects#Psychomotor Performance#Schizophrenia#Schizophrenic Psychology#Thinking#Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation#Young Adult"
b"See Jellinger (doi:10.1093/awx190) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89The enzyme monoamine oxidases (B and A subtypes, encoded by MAOB and MAOA, respectively) are drug targets in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Inhibitors of MAOB are used clinically in Parkinson's disease for symptomatic purposes whereas the potential disease-modifying effect of monoamine oxidase inhibitors is debated. As astroglial cells express high levels of MAOB, the enzyme has been proposed as a brain imaging marker of astrogliosis, a cellular process possibly involved in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis as elevation of MAOB in astrocytes might be harmful. Since brain monoamine oxidase status in Parkinson's disease is uncertain, our objective was to measure, by quantitative immunoblotting in autopsied brain homogenates, protein levels of both monoamine oxidases in three different degenerative parkinsonian disorders: Parkinson's disease (n = 11), multiple system atrophy (n = 11), and progressive supranuclear palsy (n = 16) and in matched controls (n = 16). We hypothesized that if MAOB is 'substantially' localized to astroglial cells, MAOB levels should be generally associated with standard astroglial protein measures (e.g. glial fibrillary acidic protein). MAOB levels were increased in degenerating putamen (+83%) and substantia nigra (+10%, non-significant) in multiple system atrophy; in caudate (+26%), putamen (+27%), frontal cortex (+31%) and substantia nigra (+23%) of progressive supranuclear palsy; and in frontal cortex (+33%), but not in substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease, a region we previously reported no increase in astrocyte protein markers. Although the magnitude of MAOB increase was less than those of standard astrocytic markers, significant positive correlations were observed amongst the astrocyte proteins and MAOB. Despite suggestions that MAOA (versus MAOB) is primarily responsible for metabolism of dopamine in dopamine neurons, there was no loss of the enzyme in the parkinsonian substantia nigra; instead, increased nigral levels of a MAOA fragment and 'turnover' of the enzyme were observed in the conditions. Our findings provide support that MAOB might serve as a biochemical imaging marker, albeit not entirely specific, for astrocyte activation in human brain. The observation that MAOB protein concentration is generally increased in degenerating brain areas in multiple system atrophy (especially putamen) and in progressive supranuclear palsy, but not in the nigra in Parkinson's disease, also distinguishes astrocyte behaviour in Parkinson's disease from that in the two 'Parkinson-plus' conditions. The question remains whether suppression of either MAOB in astrocytes or MAOA in dopamine neurons might influence progression of the parkinsonian disorders. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Caudate Nucleus#Dopamine#Female#Frontal Lobe#Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein#Humans#Isoenzymes#Male#Middle Aged#Monoamine Oxidase#Multiple System Atrophy#Nerve Degeneration#Parkinson Disease#Peptide Fragments#Phosphopyruvate Hydratase#Putamen#Substantia Nigra#Supranuclear Palsy, Progressive#Tubulin#Young Adult#alpha-Synuclein"
b'Auditory word comprehension is a cognitive process that involves the transformation of auditory signals into abstract concepts. Traditional lesion-based studies of stroke survivors with aphasia have suggested that neocortical regions adjacent to auditory cortex are primarily responsible for word comprehension. However, recent primary progressive aphasia and normal neurophysiological studies have challenged this concept, suggesting that the left temporal pole is crucial for word comprehension. Due to its vasculature, the temporal pole is not commonly completely lesioned in stroke survivors and this heterogeneity may have prevented its identification in lesion-based studies of auditory comprehension. We aimed to resolve this controversy using a combined voxel-based-and structural connectome-lesion symptom mapping approach, since cortical dysfunction after stroke can arise from cortical damage or from white matter disconnection. Magnetic resonance imaging (T1-weighted and diffusion tensor imaging-based structural connectome), auditory word comprehension and object recognition tests were obtained from 67 chronic left hemisphere stroke survivors. We observed that damage to the inferior temporal gyrus, to the fusiform gyrus and to a white matter network including the left posterior temporal region and its connections to the middle temporal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, and cingulate cortex, was associated with word comprehension difficulties after factoring out object recognition. These results suggest that the posterior lateral and inferior temporal regions are crucial for word comprehension, serving as a hub to integrate auditory and conceptual processing. Early processing linking auditory words to concepts is situated in posterior lateral temporal regions, whereas additional and deeper levels of semantic processing likely require more anterior temporal regions.10.1093/brain/awx169_video1awx169media15555638084001. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Brain Mapping#Comprehension#Connectome#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuropsychological Tests#Pattern Recognition, Physiological#Speech#Speech Perception#Stroke#Temporal Lobe#White Matter'
b'Timely initiation of effective therapy is crucial for preventing disability in multiple sclerosis; however, treatment response varies greatly among patients. Comprehensive predictive models of individual treatment response are lacking. Our aims were: (i) to develop predictive algorithms for individual treatment response using demographic, clinical and paraclinical predictors in patients with multiple sclerosis; and (ii) to evaluate accuracy, and internal and external validity of these algorithms. This study evaluated 27 demographic, clinical and paraclinical predictors of individual response to seven disease-modifying therapies in MSBase, a large global cohort study. Treatment response was analysed separately for disability progression, disability regression, relapse frequency, conversion to secondary progressive disease, change in the cumulative disease burden, and the probability of treatment discontinuation. Multivariable survival and generalized linear models were used, together with the principal component analysis to reduce model dimensionality and prevent overparameterization. Accuracy of the individual prediction was tested and its internal validity was evaluated in a separate, non-overlapping cohort. External validity was evaluated in a geographically distinct cohort, the Swedish Multiple Sclerosis Registry. In the training cohort (n = 8513), the most prominent modifiers of treatment response comprised age, disease duration, disease course, previous relapse activity, disability, predominant relapse phenotype and previous therapy. Importantly, the magnitude and direction of the associations varied among therapies and disease outcomes. Higher probability of disability progression during treatment with injectable therapies was predominantly associated with a greater disability at treatment start and the previous therapy. For fingolimod, natalizumab or mitoxantrone, it was mainly associated with lower pretreatment relapse activity. The probability of disability regression was predominantly associated with pre-baseline disability, therapy and relapse activity. Relapse incidence was associated with pretreatment relapse activity, age and relapsing disease course, with the strength of these associations varying among therapies. Accuracy and internal validity (n = 1196) of the resulting predictive models was high (>80%) for relapse incidence during the first year and for disability outcomes, moderate for relapse incidence in Years 2-4 and for the change in the cumulative disease burden, and low for conversion to secondary progressive disease and treatment discontinuation. External validation showed similar results, demonstrating high external validity for disability and relapse outcomes, moderate external validity for cumulative disease burden and low external validity for conversion to secondary progressive disease and treatment discontinuation. We conclude that demographic, clinical and paraclinical information helps predict individual response to disease-modifying therapies at the time of their commencement. labels: #Adult#Algorithms#Databases, Factual#Demography#Disability Evaluation#Disease Progression#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Male#Multiple Sclerosis#Precision Medicine#Prognosis#Recurrence#Reproducibility of Results#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'See Lenck-Santini (doi:10.1093/awx205) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Epileptic seizures represent altered neuronal network dynamics, but the temporal evolution and cellular substrates of the neuronal activity patterns associated with spontaneous seizures are not fully understood. We used simultaneous recordings from multiple neurons in the hippocampus and neocortex of rats with chronic temporal lobe epilepsy to demonstrate that subsets of cells discharge in a highly stereotypical sequential pattern during ictal events, and that these stereotypical patterns were reproducible across consecutive seizures. In contrast to the canonical view that principal cell discharges dominate ictal events, the ictal sequences were predominantly composed of fast-spiking, putative inhibitory neurons, which displayed unusually strong coupling to local field potential even before seizures. The temporal evolution of activity was characterized by unique dynamics where the most correlated neuronal pairs before seizure onset displayed the largest increases in correlation strength during the seizures. These results demonstrate the selective involvement of fast spiking interneurons in structured temporal sequences during spontaneous ictal events in hippocampal and neocortical circuits in experimental models of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy. labels: #Animals#Chronic Disease#Epilepsy, Temporal Lobe#Hippocampus#Interneurons#Male#Neocortex#Rats#Seizures#Temporal Lobe'
b"There are very few case series of patients with acute psychogenic memory loss (also known as dissociative/functional amnesia), and still fewer studies of outcome, or comparisons with neurological memory-disordered patients. Consequently, the literature on psychogenic amnesia is somewhat fragmented and offers little prognostic value for individual patients. In the present study, we reviewed the case records and neuropsychological findings in 53 psychogenic amnesia cases (ratio of 3:1, males:females), in comparison with 21 consecutively recruited neurological memory-disordered patients and 14 healthy control subjects. In particular, we examined the pattern of retrograde amnesia on an assessment of autobiographical memory (the Autobiographical Memory Interview). We found that our patients with psychogenic memory loss fell into four distinct groups, which we categorized as: (i) fugue state; (ii) fugue-to-focal retrograde amnesia; (iii) psychogenic focal retrograde amnesia following a minor neurological episode; and (iv) patients with gaps in their memories. While neurological cases were characterized by relevant neurological symptoms, a history of a past head injury was actually more common in our psychogenic cases (P = 0.012), perhaps reflecting a 'learning episode' predisposing to later psychological amnesia. As anticipated, loss of the sense of personal identity was confined to the psychogenic group. However, clinical depression, family/relationship problems, financial/employment problems, and failure to recognize the family were also statistically more common in that group. The pattern of autobiographical memory loss differed between the psychogenic groups: fugue cases showed a severe and uniform loss of memories for both facts and events across all time periods, whereas the two focal retrograde amnesia groups showed a 'reversed' temporal gradient with relative sparing of recent memories. After 3-6 months, the fugue patients had improved to normal scores for facts and near-normal scores for events. By contrast, the two focal retrograde amnesia groups showed less improvement and continued to show a reversed temporal gradient. In conclusion, the outcome in psychogenic amnesia, particularly those characterized by fugue, is better than generally supposed. Findings are interpreted in terms of Markowitsch's and Kopelman's models of psychogenic amnesia, and with respect to Anderson's neuroimaging findings in memory inhibition. labels: #Adult#Aged#Amnesia#Amnesia, Retrograde#Craniocerebral Trauma#Depression#Family Conflict#Female#Humans#London#Male#Memory, Episodic#Middle Aged#Neuropsychological Tests#Self Concept#Young Adult"
b'Recently, de novo mutations in the gene KCNA2, causing either a dominant-negative loss-of-function or a gain-of-function of the voltage-gated K+ channel Kv1.2, were described to cause a new molecular entity within the epileptic encephalopathies. Here, we report a cohort of 23 patients (eight previously described) with epileptic encephalopathy carrying either novel or known KCNA2 mutations, with the aim to detail the clinical phenotype associated with each of them, to characterize the functional effects of the newly identified mutations, and to assess genotype-phenotype associations. We identified five novel and confirmed six known mutations, three of which recurred in three, five and seven patients, respectively. Ten mutations were missense and one was a truncation mutation; de novo occurrence could be shown in 20 patients. Functional studies using a Xenopus oocyte two-microelectrode voltage clamp system revealed mutations with only loss-of-function effects (mostly dominant-negative current amplitude reduction) in eight patients or only gain-of-function effects (hyperpolarizing shift of voltage-dependent activation, increased amplitude) in nine patients. In six patients, the gain-of-function was diminished by an additional loss-of-function (gain-and loss-of-function) due to a hyperpolarizing shift of voltage-dependent activation combined with either decreased amplitudes or an additional hyperpolarizing shift of the inactivation curve. These electrophysiological findings correlated with distinct phenotypic features. The main differences were (i) predominant focal (loss-of-function) versus generalized (gain-of-function) seizures and corresponding epileptic discharges with prominent sleep activation in most cases with loss-of-function mutations; (ii) more severe epilepsy, developmental problems and ataxia, and atrophy of the cerebellum or even the whole brain in about half of the patients with gain-of-function mutations; and (iii) most severe early-onset phenotypes, occasionally with neonatal onset epilepsy and developmental impairment, as well as generalized and focal seizures and EEG abnormalities for patients with gain- and loss-of-function mutations. Our study thus indicates well represented genotype-phenotype associations between three subgroups of patients with KCNA2 encephalopathy according to the electrophysiological features of the mutations. labels: #Animals#Brain Diseases#Epilepsy#Genetic Association Studies#Kv1.2 Potassium Channel#Mutation#Oocytes#Phenotype#Xenopus'
b"Auditory verbal hallucinations (hearing voices) are typically associated with psychosis, but a minority of the general population also experience them frequently and without distress. Such 'non-clinical' experiences offer a rare and unique opportunity to study hallucinations apart from confounding clinical factors, thus allowing for the identification of symptom-specific mechanisms. Recent theories propose that hallucinations result from an imbalance of prior expectation and sensory information, but whether such an imbalance also influences auditory-perceptual processes remains unknown. We examine for the first time the cortical processing of ambiguous speech in people without psychosis who regularly hear voices. Twelve non-clinical voice-hearers and 17 matched controls completed a functional magnetic resonance imaging scan while passively listening to degraded speech ('sine-wave' speech), that was either potentially intelligible or unintelligible. Voice-hearers reported recognizing the presence of speech in the stimuli before controls, and before being explicitly informed of its intelligibility. Across both groups, intelligible sine-wave speech engaged a typical left-lateralized speech processing network. Notably, however, voice-hearers showed stronger intelligibility responses than controls in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and in the superior frontal gyrus. This suggests an enhanced involvement of attention and sensorimotor processes, selectively when speech was potentially intelligible. Altogether, these behavioural and neural findings indicate that people with hallucinatory experiences show distinct responses to meaningful auditory stimuli. A greater weighting towards prior knowledge and expectation might cause non-veridical auditory sensations in these individuals, but it might also spontaneously facilitate perceptual processing where such knowledge is required. This has implications for the understanding of hallucinations in clinical and non-clinical populations, and is consistent with current 'predictive processing' theories of psychosis. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Adult#Auditory Perception#Case-Control Studies#Female#Gyrus Cinguli#Hallucinations#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Prefrontal Cortex#Uncertainty#Young Adult"
b'A continuous isoelectric electroencephalogram reflects an interruption of endogenously-generated activity in cortical networks and systematically results in a complete dissolution of conscious processes. This electro-cerebral inactivity occurs during various brain disorders, including hypothermia, drug intoxication, long-lasting anoxia and brain trauma. It can also be induced in a therapeutic context, following the administration of high doses of barbiturate-derived compounds, to interrupt a hyper-refractory status epilepticus. Although altered sensory responses can be occasionally observed on an isoelectric electroencephalogram, the electrical membrane properties and synaptic responses of individual neurons during this cerebral state remain largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to characterize the intracellular correlates of a barbiturate-induced isoelectric electroencephalogram and to analyse the sensory-evoked synaptic responses that can emerge from a brain deprived of spontaneous electrical activity. We first examined the sensory responsiveness from patients suffering from intractable status epilepticus and treated by administration of thiopental. Multimodal sensory responses could be evoked on the flat electroencephalogram, including visually-evoked potentials that were significantly amplified and delayed, with a high trial-to-trial reproducibility compared to awake healthy subjects. Using an analogous pharmacological procedure to induce prolonged electro-cerebral inactivity in the rat, we could describe its cortical and subcortical intracellular counterparts. Neocortical, hippocampal and thalamo-cortical neurons were all silent during the isoelectric state and displayed a flat membrane potential significantly hyperpolarized compared with spontaneously active control states. Nonetheless, all recorded neurons could fire action potentials in response to intracellularly injected depolarizing current pulses and their specific intrinsic electrophysiological features were preserved. Manipulations of the membrane potential and intracellular injection of chloride in neocortical neurons failed to reveal an augmented synaptic inhibition during the isoelectric condition. Consistent with the sensory responses recorded from comatose patients, large and highly reproducible somatosensory-evoked potentials could be generated on the inactive electrocorticogram in rats. Intracellular recordings revealed that the underlying neocortical pyramidal cells responded to sensory stimuli by complex synaptic potentials able to trigger action potentials. As in patients, sensory responses in the isoelectric state were delayed compared to control responses and exhibited an elevated reliability during repeated stimuli. Our findings demonstrate that during prolonged isoelectric brain state neurons and synaptic networks are dormant rather than excessively inhibited, conserving their intrinsic properties and their ability to integrate and propagate environmental stimuli. labels: #Action Potentials#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Animals#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cerebral Cortex#Electric Stimulation#Electroencephalography#Evoked Potentials#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neural Pathways#Neurons#Pyramidal Cells#Rats#Status Epilepticus#Thiopental#Unconsciousness#Young Adult'
b'Mexiletine is the only drug with proven effect for treatment of non-dystrophic myotonia, but mexiletine is expensive, has limited availability and several side effects. There is therefore a need to identify other pharmacological compounds that can alleviate myotonia in non-dystrophic myotonias. Like mexiletine, lamotrigine is a sodium channel blocker, but unlike mexiletine, lamotrigine is available, inexpensive, and well tolerated. We investigated the potential of using lamotrigine for treatment of myotonia in patients with non-dystrophic myotonias. In this, randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period cross-over study, we included adult outpatients recruited from all of Denmark with clinical myotonia and genetically confirmed myotonia congenita and paramyotonia congenita for investigation at the Copenhagen Neuromuscular Center. A pharmacy produced the medication and placebo, and randomized patients in blocks of 10. Participants and investigators were all blinded to treatment until the end of the trial. In two 8-week periods, oral lamotrigine or placebo capsules were provided once daily, with increasing doses (from 25 mg, 50 mg, 150 mg to 300 mg) every second week. The primary outcome was a severity score of myotonia, the Myotonic Behaviour Scale ranging from asymptomatic (score 1) to invalidating myotonia (score 6), reported by the participants during Weeks 0 and 8 in each treatment period. Clinical myotonia was also measured and side effects were monitored. The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02159963) and EudraCT (2013-003309-24). We included 26 patients (10 females, 16 males, age: 19-74 years) from 13 November 2013 to 6 July 2015. Twenty-two completed the entire study. One patient withdrew due to an allergic reaction to lamotrigine. Three patients withdrew for reasons not related to the trial intervention. The Myotonic Behaviour Scale at baseline was 3.2 \xc2\xb1 1.1, which changed after treatment with lamotrigine by 1.3 \xc2\xb1 0.2 scores (P<0.001), but not with placebo (0.2 \xc2\xb1 0.1 scores, P = 0.4). The estimated effect size was 1.0 \xc2\xb1 0.2 (95% confidence interval = 0.5-1.5, P<0.001, n = 22). The standardized effect size of lamotrigine was 1.5 (confidence interval: 1.2-1.8). Number needed to treat was 2.6 (P = 0.006, n = 26). No adverse or unsuspected event occurred. Common side effects occurred in both treatment groups; number needed to harm was 5.2 (P = 0.11, n = 26). Lamotrigine effectively reduced myotonia, emphasized by consistency between effects on patient-related outcomes and objective outcomes. The frequency of side effects was acceptable. Considering this and the high availability and low cost of the drug, we suggest that lamotrigine should be used as the first line of treatment for myotonia in treatment-naive patients with non-dystrophic myotonias. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cross-Over Studies#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myotonia Congenita#Myotonic Disorders#Treatment Outcome#Triazines#Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel Blockers#Young Adult'
b"Chronic lymphocytic inflammation with pontine perivascular enhancement responsive to steroids (CLIPPERS) is a central nervous system inflammatory syndrome predominantly affecting the brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord. Following its initial description, the salient features of CLIPPERS have been confirmed and expanded upon, but the lack of formalized diagnostic criteria has led to reports of patients with dissimilar features purported to have CLIPPERS. We evaluated clinical, radiological and pathological features of patients referred for suspected CLIPPERS and propose diagnostic criteria to discriminate CLIPPERS from non-CLIPPERS aetiologies. Thirty-five patients were evaluated for suspected CLIPPERS. Clinical and neuroimaging data were reviewed by three neurologists to confirm CLIPPERS by consensus agreement. Neuroimaging and neuropathology were reviewed by experienced neuroradiologists and neuropathologists, respectively, both of whom were blinded to the clinical data. CLIPPERS was diagnosed in 23 patients (18 male and five female) and 12 patients had a non-CLIPPERS diagnosis. CLIPPERS patients' median age of onset was 58 years (interquartile range, 24-72) and were followed a median of 44 months (interquartile range 38-63). Non-CLIPPERS patients' median age of onset was 52 years (interquartile range, 39-59) and were followed a median of 27 months (interquartile range, 14-47). Clinical symptoms of gait ataxia, diplopia, cognitive impairment, and facial paraesthesia did not discriminate CLIPPERS from non-CLIPPERS. Marked clinical and radiological corticosteroid responsiveness was observed in CLIPPERS (23/23), and clinical worsening occurred in all 12 CLIPPERS cases when corticosteroids were discontinued. Corticosteroid responsiveness was common but not universal in non-CLIPPERS [clinical improvement (8/12); radiological improvement (2/12); clinical worsening on discontinuation (3/8)]. CLIPPERS patients had brainstem predominant perivascular gadolinium enhancing lesions on magnetic resonance imaging that were discriminated from non-CLIPPERS by: homogenous gadolinium enhancing nodules<3 mm in diameter without ring-enhancement or mass effect, and homogenous T2 signal abnormality not significantly exceeding the T1 enhancement. Brain neuropathology on 14 CLIPPERS cases demonstrated marked CD3-positive T-lymphocyte, mild B-lymphocyte and moderate macrophage infiltrates, with perivascular predominance as well as diffuse parenchymal infiltration (14/14), present in meninges, white and grey matter, associated with variable tissue destruction, astrogliosis and secondary myelin loss. Clinical, radiological and pathological feature define CLIPPERS syndrome and are differentiated from non-CLIPPERS aetiologies by neuroradiological and neuropathological findings. labels: #Adrenal Cortex Hormones#Adult#Age of Onset#Aged#Encephalitis#Female#Gadolinium#Humans#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'De novo in-frame deletions and duplications in the SPTAN1 gene, encoding the non-erythrocyte \xce\xb1II spectrin, have been associated with severe West syndrome with hypomyelination and pontocerebellar atrophy. We aimed at comprehensively delineating the phenotypic spectrum associated with SPTAN1 mutations. Using different molecular genetic techniques, we identified 20 patients with a pathogenic or likely pathogenic SPTAN1 variant and reviewed their clinical, genetic and imaging data. SPTAN1 de novo alterations included seven unique missense variants and nine in-frame deletions/duplications of which 12 were novel. The recurrent three-amino acid duplication p.(Asp2303_Leu2305dup) occurred in five patients. Our patient cohort exhibited a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental phenotypes, comprising six patients with mild to moderate intellectual disability, with or without epilepsy and behavioural disorders, and 14 patients with infantile epileptic encephalopathy, of which 13 had severe neurodevelopmental impairment and four died in early childhood. Imaging studies suggested that the severity of neurological impairment and epilepsy correlates with that of structural abnormalities as well as the mutation type and location. Out of seven patients harbouring mutations outside the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimerization domain, four had normal brain imaging and three exhibited moderately progressive brain and/or cerebellar atrophy. Twelve of 13 patients with mutations located within the spectrin heterodimer contact site exhibited severe and progressive brain, brainstem and cerebellar atrophy, with hypomyelination in most. We used fibroblasts from five patients to study spectrin aggregate formation by Triton-X extraction and immunocytochemistry followed by fluorescence microscopy. \xce\xb1II/\xce\xb2II aggregates and \xce\xb1II spectrin in the insoluble protein fraction were observed in fibroblasts derived from patients with the mutations p.(Glu2207del), p.(Asp2303_Leu2305dup) and p.(Arg2308_Met2309dup), all falling in the nucleation site of the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimer region. Molecular modelling of the seven SPTAN1 amino acid changes provided preliminary evidence for structural alterations of the A-, B- and/or C-helices within each of the mutated spectrin repeats. We conclude that SPTAN1-related disorders comprise a wide spectrum of neurodevelopmental phenotypes ranging from mild to severe and progressive. Spectrin aggregate formation in fibroblasts with mutations in the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 heterodimerization domain seems to be associated with a severe neurodegenerative course and suggests that the amino acid stretch from Asp2303 to Met2309 in the \xce\xb120 repeat is important for \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimer formation and/or \xce\xb1II spectrin function. labels: #Adolescent#Atrophy#Brain#Brain Diseases#Carrier Proteins#Cells, Cultured#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Progression#Epilepsy#Female#Fibroblasts#Humans#Male#Microfilament Proteins#Models, Molecular#Mutation#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Phenotype#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#Young Adult'
b"The mitochondrial proteins TRAP1 and HTRA2 have previously been shown to be phosphorylated in the presence of the Parkinson's disease kinase PINK1 but the downstream signalling is unknown. HTRA2 and PINK1 loss of function causes parkinsonism in humans and animals. Here, we identified TRAP1 as an interactor of HTRA2 using an unbiased mass spectrometry approach. In our human cell models, TRAP1 overexpression is protective, rescuing HTRA2 and PINK1-associated mitochondrial dysfunction and suggesting that TRAP1 acts downstream of HTRA2 and PINK1. HTRA2 regulates TRAP1 protein levels, but TRAP1 is not a direct target of HTRA2 protease activity. Following genetic screening of Parkinson's disease patients and healthy controls, we also report the first TRAP1 mutation leading to complete loss of functional protein in a patient with late onset Parkinson's disease. Analysis of fibroblasts derived from the patient reveal that oxygen consumption, ATP output and reactive oxygen species are increased compared to healthy individuals. This is coupled with an increased pool of free NADH, increased mitochondrial biogenesis, triggering of the mitochondrial unfolded protein response, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and sensitivity to mitochondrial removal and apoptosis. These data highlight the role of TRAP1 in the regulation of energy metabolism and mitochondrial quality control. Interestingly, the diabetes drug metformin reverses mutation-associated alterations on energy metabolism, mitochondrial biogenesis and restores mitochondrial membrane potential. In summary, our data show that TRAP1 acts downstream of PINK1 and HTRA2 for mitochondrial fine tuning, whereas TRAP1 loss of function leads to reduced control of energy metabolism, ultimately impacting mitochondrial membrane potential. These findings offer new insight into mitochondrial pathologies in Parkinson's disease and provide new prospects for targeted therapies. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Apoptosis#Case-Control Studies#Cells, Cultured#Fibroblasts#HSP90 Heat-Shock Proteins#High-Temperature Requirement A Serine Peptidase 2#Humans#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Metformin#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Mutation#NAD#Organelle Biogenesis#Oxygen Consumption#Parkinson Disease#Protein Kinases#Reactive Oxygen Species#Serine Endopeptidases"
b'BACKGROUND: Recently, 2 randomized controlled trials showed that the instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR), a resting\xc2\xa0coronary physiological index, is noninferior to fractional flow reserve for guiding revascularization. The resting distal to aortic coronary pressure (Pd/Pa) measured at rest is another adenosine-free index widely available in the cardiac catheterization laboratory; however, little is known about the agreement of Pd/Pausing iFR as a reference standard.OBJECTIVES: The goal of this study was to investigate the agreement of Pd/Pawith iFR.METHODS: A total of 763 patients were prospectively enrolled from 12 institutions. iFR and Pd/Pawere measured under resting conditions. Using iFR\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa40.89 as a reference standard, the agreement of Pd/Paand its best cutoff value were assessed.RESULTS: According to the independent core laboratory analysis, iFR and Pd/Pawere analyzable in 627 and 733 patients (82.2% vs. 96.1%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), respectively. The median iFR and Pd/Pawere 0.90 (interquartile range: 0.85 to 0.94) and\xc2\xa00.92 (interquartile range: 0.88 to 0.95), and the 2 indices were highly correlated (R2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.93; p\xc2\xa0<0.001; iFR\xc2\xa0= 1.31 *\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa-0.31). According to the receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis, Pd/Pashowed excellent agreement (area\xc2\xa0under the curve:\xc2\xa00.98; 95% confidence interval: 0.97 to 0.99; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) with a best cutoff value of Pd/Pa\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa40.91. The diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 93.0%, 91.4%, 94.4%, 93.3%, and 92.7%, respectively. These results were similar in patients with acute coronary syndrome and stable angina.CONCLUSIONS: Pd/Pawas analyzable in a significantly higher number of patients than iFR. Pd/Pashowed excellent agreement with iFR, suggesting that it could be applied clinically in a similar fashion. (Can Contrast Injection Better Approximate FFR Compared to Pure Resting Physiology? [CONTRAST]; NCT02184117). labels: #Aged#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Determination#Coronary Circulation#Coronary Vessels#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Reference Standards'
b'BACKGROUND: Instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) has been used in clinical practice to identify functionally significant\xc2\xa0stenosis and to guide treatment strategy. However, there are limited clinical data regarding another resting pressure-derived index, resting distal to aortic coronary pressure (Pd/Pa), and similarities and differences between resting\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa and iFR.OBJECTIVES: The authors investigated the changes in resting Pd/Pa and iFR according to anatomic and hemodynamic stenosis severity and their prognostic implications.METHODS: From the 3V FFR-FRIENDS (Clinical Implication of 3-vessel Fractional Flow Reserve) and the IRIS-FFR (Study\xc2\xa0of the Natural History of FFR Guided Percutaneous Coronary Intervention) studies, 1,024 vessels (n = 435) with\xc2\xa0available pre-intervention resting Pd/Pa and iFR were used to explore the changes in resting physiological indices\xc2\xa0according to percent diameter stenosis. Among 115 patients who underwent13N-ammonia positron emission tomography, the changes in those indices according to basal and hyperemic stenosis resistance and absolute hyperemic myocardial\xc2\xa0blood flow were compared. The association between physiological indices and the risk of 2-year major adverse cardiac events (MACE) (a composite of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, and ischemia-driven revascularization) were analyzed among 375 deferred patients.RESULTS: There was a significant linear correlation between resting Pd/Pa and iFR (R\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.970; p\xc2\xa0<0.001, iFR\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.370\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 resting Pd/Pa\xc2\xa0- 0.370). Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR changed significantly according to percent diameter stenosis, basal\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0hyperemic stenosis resistance, and hyperemic absolute myocardial blood flow (all p values\xc2\xa0<0.001). Percent difference of\xc2\xa0iFR according to the increase in anatomic and hemodynamic severity was higher than that of resting Pd/Pa. Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR showed a significant association with the risk of 2-year MACE (resting Pd/Pa hazard ratio [per\xc2\xa00.10\xc2\xa0increase]:\xc2\xa00.480; 95% confidence interval: 0.250 to 0.923; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.027; iFR hazard ratio [per 0.1 increase]: 0.586;\xc2\xa095%\xc2\xa0confidence interval: 0.373 to 0.919; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.020) in deferred patients. However, the difference between the upper- and lower-bound estimated MACE rates according to the approximate measurement variability of each index was significantly higher with resting Pd/Pa compared with iFR (resting Pd/Pa 3.85 \xc2\xb1 4.00% and iFR 3.27 \xc2\xb1 3.39%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR showed similar associations with anatomic and hemodynamic stenosis severity and the risk of MACE. However, iFR was more sensitive to the difference in stenosis severity and showed a\xc2\xa0lower\xc2\xa0maximum difference in estimated MACE risk influenced by the measurement variability compared with resting\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa. (Clinical Implication of 3-Vessel Fractional Flow Reserve [3V FFR-FRIENDS]; NCT01621438; and\xc2\xa0Study\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0the\xc2\xa0Natural History of FFR Guided Percutaneous Coronary Intervention [IRIS-FFR]; NCT01366404). labels: #Angina, Stable#Aorta, Thoracic#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Stenosis#Coronary Vessels#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fractional Flow Reserve, Myocardial#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Positron-Emission Tomography#Severity of Illness Index'
b'BACKGROUND: Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) binds low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), preventing its recycling. PCSK9 is a risk predictor and a biotarget in atherosclerosis progression.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine whether the PCSK9-LDLR axis could predict risk in patients with heart failure (HF).METHODS: The BIOSTAT-CHF (Biology Study to Tailored Treatment in Chronic Heart Failure) is a multicenter, multinational, prospective, observational study that included patients with worsening HF signs and/or symptoms. The primary endpoints were all-cause mortality and the composite of mortality or unscheduled hospitalizations for HF. We implemented Cox proportional hazard regression to determine the simultaneously adjusted effect of PCSK9 and LDLR on both outcomes when added to the previously validated BIOSTAT-CHF risk scores.RESULTS: This study included 2,174 patients (mean age: 68 \xc2\xb1 12 years; 53.2% had a history of ischemic heart disease). Median (interquartile range) PCSK9 and LDLR levels were 1.81\xc2\xa0U/ml (1.45 to 2.18) and 2.98\xc2\xa0U/ml (2.45 to 3.53), respectively. During follow-up, 569 deaths (26.2%) and 896 (41.2%) composite endpoints were ascertained. A multivariable analysis, which included BIOSTAT-CHF risk scores, LDLR, and statin treatment as covariates, revealed a positive linear association between PCSK9 levels and the risk of mortality (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.24; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04 to 1.49; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.020) and the composite endpoint (HR: 1.21; 95% CI: 1.05 to 1.40; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.010). A similar analysis for LDLR revealed a negative association with mortality (HR: 0.86; 95% CI: 0.76 to 0.98; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.025) and the composite endpoint (HR: 0.92; 95% CI: 0.83 to 1.01; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.087). Including PCSK9 and LDLR improved risk score performance.CONCLUSIONS: The PCSK9-LDLR axis was associated with outcomes in patients with HF. Future studies must\xc2\xa0assess whether PCSK9 inhibition will result in better outcomes in HF. labels: #Aged#Forecasting#Heart Failure#Humans#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Proportional Hazards Models#Proprotein Convertase 9#Prospective Studies#Receptors, LDL#Risk'
b'BACKGROUND: Sustained sympathetic activation contributes to the progression of myocardial cell injury, cardiac fibrosis, and left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in heart failure (HF).OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the effects of radiofrequency renal nerve denervation (RF-RDN) on the pathobiology of HF and the interaction between the renal sympathetic nerves and natriuretic peptide (NP) metabolism.METHODS: Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were subjected to 45\xc2\xa0min of coronary artery ligation and reperfusion for 12\xc2\xa0weeks. At 4\xc2\xa0weeks post-reperfusion, SHR and WKY underwent either bilateral RF-RDN or sham-RDN.RESULTS: Following RF-RDN in both strains, LV ejection fraction remained significantly above those levels in respective sham-RDN rats, and at the end of the 12-week study, rats in both strains had significantly reduced LV fibrosis and improved vascular function. RF-RDN therapy significantly improved vascular reactivity to endothelium-dependent and\xc2\xa0-independent vasodilators as well as vascular compliance in the setting of severe HF. Improvements in LV function were accompanied by significant elevations in circulating NP as compared to those associated with sham-RDN. Further investigation into the cause of increased circulating NP levels demonstrated that RF-RDN significantly inhibited renal neprilysin activity in SHR and WKY with HF. Likewise, chronic treatment with the beta1antagonist bisoprolol inhibited renal neprilysin activity and increased circulation NP levels in WKY with HF.CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies a novel endogenous pathway by which the renal nerves participate in the degradation of cardioprotective NP. Furthermore, removal of the influence of the renal nerves on kidney function attenuates renal neprilysin activity, augments circulating NP levels, reduces myocardial fibrosis, and improves LV function in the setting of HF. labels: #Aminobutyrates#Angiotensin II#Animals#Bisoprolol#Blood Pressure#Echocardiography#Heart Failure#Kidney#Myocardium#Neprilysin#Nitrites#Norepinephrine#Rats#Rats, Inbred SHR#Rats, Inbred WKY#Renal Artery#Renin#Reperfusion Injury#Sympathectomy#Tetrazoles#Ventricular Function, Left'
b"Tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine is recommended during the third trimester of each pregnancy to provide protection to newborns, who are at risk for pertussis-related morbidity and mortality (1). As part of its case-control surveillance study of medications and birth defects, the Birth Defects Study of the Slone Epidemiology Center at Boston University (the Birth Defects Study) has recorded data on vaccinations received during pregnancy since 2006. Among 5,606 mothers of infants without structural birth defects in this population (control group),<1% had received Tdap vaccine before 2009. By 2012, the percentage of mothers of infants in the control group (control infants) who had received Tdap increased to approximately 9%, and then in 2013 and continuing through 2015, increased markedly, to 28% and 54%, respectively. As the prevalence of maternal Tdap vaccination increased, so did the proportion of pregnant women who received Tdap in the third trimester, as recommended (94%-100% from 2010 to 2015). The vast majority of Tdap vaccinations (96%) were received in a traditional health care setting (e.g., the office of the woman's obstetrician or primary care physician or her prenatal clinic). Increasing vaccination coverage during pregnancy could help reduce the impact of pertussis on infant morbidity and mortality. labels: #Diphtheria#Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis Vaccines#Female#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Trimesters#Tetanus#United States#Vaccination#Whooping Cough"
b'Mortality surveillance and vital registration are limited in Sierra Leone, a country with one of the highest mortality rates among children aged<5 years worldwide, approximately 120 deaths per 1,000 live births (1,2). To inform efforts to strengthen surveillance, stillbirths and deaths in children aged<5 years from multiple surveillance streams in Bombali Sebora chiefdom were retrospectively reviewed. In total, during January 2015-November 2016, 930 deaths in children aged<5 years were identified, representing 73.3% of the 1,269 deaths that were expected based on modeled estimates. The "117" telephone alert system established during the Ebola virus disease (Ebola) epidemic captured 683 (73.4%) of all reported deaths in children aged<5 years, and was the predominant reporting source for stillbirths (n = 172). In the absence of complete vital events registration, 117 call alerts markedly improved the completeness of reporting of stillbirths and deaths in children aged<5 years. labels: #Child Mortality#Child, Preschool#Epidemics#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#Infant#Infant Mortality#Infant, Newborn#Mandatory Reporting#Population Surveillance#Sierra Leone#Stillbirth'
b'Diagnoses of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection among women declined 17% during 2011-2015, and a total of 7,498 women received a diagnosis of HIV infection in 2015 (1). Although black or African American (black) women accounted for only 12% of the U.S. female population, 60% of women with newly diagnosed HIV infection were black (1,2). By the end of 2014, an estimated 255,900 women were living with HIV infection (3), including approximately 12% who did not know they were infected; in addition, approximately 45% of women who had received a diagnosis had not achieved viral suppression (3). HIV testing is an important public health strategy for identifying women with HIV infection and linking them to HIV medical care. Analysis of CDC-funded program data submitted by 61 health departments in 2015 indicated that among 4,749 women tested who received a diagnosis of HIV infection, 2,951 (62%) had received a diagnosis in the past (previous diagnosis), and 1,798 (38%) were receiving a diagnosis for the first time (new diagnosis). Of those who had received a previous diagnosis, 87% were not in HIV medical care at the time of the current test. Testing and identifying women who are living with HIV infection but who are not in care (regardless of when they received their first diagnosis) and rapidly linking them to care so they can receive antiretroviral therapy and become virally suppressed are essential for reducing HIV infection among all women. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Continuity of Patient Care#Female#HIV Infections#Health Facilities#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Mass Screening#Puerto Rico#Sexual Partners#United States#United States Virgin Islands#Young Adult'
b"PROBLEM/CONDITION: Drug overdoses are a leading cause of injury death in the United States, resulting in approximately 52,000 deaths in 2015. Understanding differences in illicit drug use, illicit drug use disorders, and overall drug overdose deaths in metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas is important for informing public health programs, interventions, and policies.REPORTING PERIOD: Illicit drug use and drug use disorders during 2003-2014, and drug overdose deaths during 1999-2015.DESCRIPTION OF DATA: The National Survey of Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) collects information through face-to-face household interviews about the use of illicit drugs, alcohol, and tobacco among the U.S. noninstitutionalized civilian population aged \xe2\x89\xa512 years. Respondents include residents of households and noninstitutional group quarters (e.g., shelters, rooming houses, dormitories, migratory workers' camps, and halfway houses) and civilians living on military bases. NSDUH variables include sex, age, race/ethnicity, residence (metropolitan/nonmetropolitan), annual household income, self-reported drug use, and drug use disorders. National Vital Statistics System Mortality (NVSS-M) data for U.S. residents include information from death certificates filed in the 50 states and the District of Columbia. Cases were selected with an underlying cause of death based on the ICD-10 codes for drug overdoses (X40-X44, X60-X64, X85, and Y10-Y14). NVSS-M variables include decedent characteristics (sex, age, and race/ethnicity) and information on intent (unintentional, suicide, homicide, or undetermined), location of death (medical facility, in a home, or other [including nursing homes, hospices, unknown, and other locations]) and county of residence (metropolitan/nonmetropolitan). Metropolitan/nonmetropolitan status is assigned independently in each data system. NSDUH uses a three-category system: Core Based Statistical Area (CBSA) of \xe2\x89\xa51 million persons; CBSA of<1 million persons; and not a CBSA, which for simplicity were labeled large metropolitan, small metropolitan, and nonmetropolitan. Deaths from NVSS-M are categorized by the county of residence of the decedent using CDC's National Center for Health Statistics 2013 Urban-Rural Classification Scheme, collapsed into two categories (metropolitan and nonmetropolitan).RESULTS: Although both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas experienced significant increases from 2003-2005 to 2012-2014 in self-reported past-month use of illicit drugs, the prevalence was highest for the large metropolitan areas compared with small metropolitan or nonmetropolitan areas throughout the study period. Notably, past-month use of illicit drugs declined over the study period for the youngest respondents (aged 12-17 years). The prevalence of past-year illicit drug use disorders among persons using illicit drugs in the past year varied by metropolitan/nonmetropolitan status and changed over time. Across both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas, the prevalence of past-year illicit drug use disorders declined during 2003-2014. In 2015, approximately six times as many drug overdose deaths occurred in metropolitan areas than occurred in nonmetropolitan areas (metropolitan: 45,059; nonmetropolitan: 7,345). Drug overdose death rates (per 100,000 population) for metropolitan areas were higher than in nonmetropolitan areas in 1999 (6.4 versus 4.0), however, the rates converged in 2004, and by 2015, the nonmetropolitan rate (17.0) was slightly higher than the metropolitan rate (16.2).INTERPRETATION: Drug use and subsequent overdoses continue to be a critical and complicated public health challenge across metropolitan/nonmetropolitan areas. The decline in illicit drug use by youth and the lower prevalence of illicit drug use disorders in rural areas during 2012-2014 are encouraging signs. However, the increasing rate of drug overdose deaths in rural areas, which surpassed rates in urban areas, is cause for concern.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTIONS: Understanding the differences between metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas in drug use, drug use disorders, and drug overdose deaths can help public health professionals to identify, monitor, and prioritize responses. Consideration of where persons live and where they die from overdose could enhance specific overdose prevention interventions, such as training on naloxone administration or rescue breathing. Educating prescribers on CDC's guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain (Dowell D, Haegerich TM, Chou R. CDC guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain-United States, 2016. MMWR Recomm Rep 2016;66[No. RR-1]) and facilitating better access to medication-assisted treatment with methadone, buprenorphine, or naltrexone could benefit communities with high opioid use disorder rates. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Drug Overdose#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Male#Rural Population#Street Drugs#Substance-Related Disorders#United States#Urban Population#Young Adult"
b'CDC has updated its interim guidance for U.S. health care providers caring for infants with possible congenital Zika virus infection (1) in response to recently published updated guidance for health care providers caring for pregnant women with possible Zika virus exposure (2), unknown sensitivity and specificity of currently available diagnostic tests for congenital Zika virus infection, and recognition of additional clinical findings associated with congenital Zika virus infection. All infants born to mothers with possible Zika virus exposure* during pregnancy should receive a standard evaluation at birth and at each subsequent well-child visit including a comprehensive physical examination, age-appropriate vision screening and developmental monitoring and screening using validated tools (3-5), and newborn hearing screen at birth, preferably using auditory brainstem response (ABR) methodology (6). Specific guidance for laboratory testing and clinical evaluation are provided for three clinical scenarios in the setting of possible maternal Zika virus exposure: 1) infants with clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome regardless of maternal testing results, 2) infants without clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome who were born to mothers with laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection,\xe2\x80\xa0and 3) infants without clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome who were born to mothers without laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection. Infants in the first two scenarios should receive further testing and evaluation for Zika virus, whereas for the third group, further testing and clinical evaluation for Zika virus are not recommended. Health care providers should remain alert for abnormal findings (e.g., postnatal-onset microcephaly and eye abnormalities without microcephaly) in infants with possible congenital Zika virus exposure without apparent abnormalities at birth. labels: #Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Female#Humans#Infant#Practice Guidelines as Topic#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#United States#Zika Virus Infection'
b"Health communication and social mobilization efforts to improve the public's knowledge, attitudes, and practices (KAP) regarding Ebola virus disease (Ebola) were important in controlling the 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic in Guinea (1), which resulted in 3,814 reported Ebola cases and 2,544 deaths.* Most Ebola cases in Guinea resulted from the washing and touching of persons and corpses infected with Ebola without adequate infection control precautions at home, at funerals, and in health facilities (2,3). As the 18-month epidemic waned in August 2015, Ebola KAP were assessed in a survey among residents of Guinea recruited through multistage cluster sampling procedures in the nation's eight administrative regions (Bok\xc3\xa9, Conakry, Faranah, Kankan, Kindia, Lab\xc3\xa9, Mamou, and Nz\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9kor\xc3\xa9). Nearly all participants (92%) were aware of Ebola prevention measures, but 27% believed that Ebola could be transmitted by ambient air, and 49% believed they could protect themselves from Ebola by avoiding mosquito bites. Of the participants, 95% reported taking actions to avoid getting Ebola, especially more frequent handwashing (93%). Nearly all participants (91%) indicated they would send relatives with suspected Ebola to Ebola treatment centers, and 89% said they would engage special Ebola burial teams to remove corpses with suspected Ebola from homes. Of the participants, 66% said they would prefer to observe an Ebola-affected corpse from a safe distance at burials rather than practice traditional funeral rites involving corpse contact. The findings were used to guide the ongoing epidemic response and recovery efforts, including health communication, social mobilization, and planning, to prevent and respond to future outbreaks or sporadic cases of Ebola. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Epidemics#Female#Guinea#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#Male#Young Adult"
b'Here, we present the use of ethoscopes, which are machines for high-throughput analysis of behavior in Drosophila and other animals. Ethoscopes provide a software and hardware solution that is reproducible and easily scalable. They perform, in real-time, tracking and profiling of behavior by using a supervised machine learning algorithm, are able to deliver behaviorally triggered stimuli to flies in a feedback-loop mode, and are highly customizable and open source. Ethoscopes can be built easily by using 3D printing technology and rely on Raspberry Pi microcomputers and Arduino boards to provide affordable and flexible hardware. All software and construction specifications are available at http://lab.gilest.ro/ethoscope. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Behavior, Animal#Drosophila melanogaster#Ethology#Machine Learning#Microcomputers#Printing, Three-Dimensional#Reproducibility of Results#Software'
b'In a 2016 survey of 704 National Science Foundation (NSF) Biological Sciences Directorate principal investigators (BIO PIs), nearly 90% indicated they are currently or will soon be analyzing large data sets. BIO PIs considered a range of computational needs important to their work, including high performance computing (HPC), bioinformatics support, multistep workflows, updated analysis software, and the ability to store, share, and publish data. Previous studies in the United States and Canada emphasized infrastructure needs. However, BIO PIs said the most pressing unmet needs are training in data integration, data management, and scaling analyses for HPC-acknowledging that data science skills will be required to build a deeper understanding of life. This portends a growing data knowledge gap in biology and challenges institutions and funding agencies to redouble their support for computational training in biology. labels: #Computational Biology#Databases, Genetic#Humans#Research Personnel#United States'
b'OBJECTIVE: The United States is amidst an opioid epidemic, including synthetic opioids that may result in rapid death, leaving minimal opportunity for bystander rescue. We pilot tested a behavioral intervention to reduce the occurrence of opioid overdose among opioid dependent persons at high-risk for subsequent overdose.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a single-blinded randomized-controlled trial of a repeated dose motivational interviewing intervention (REBOOT) to reduce overdose versus treatment as usual, defined as information and referrals, over 16 months at the San Francisco Department of Public Health from 2014-2016. Participants were 18-65 years of age, had opioid use disorder by Structured Clinical Interview, active opioid use, opioid overdose within 5 years, and prior receipt of naloxone kits. The intervention was administered at months 0, 4, 8, and 12, preceded by the assessment which was also administered at month 16. Dual primary outcomes were any overdose event and number of events, collected by computer-assisted personal interview, as well as any fatal overdose events per vital records.RESULTS: A total of 78 persons were screened and 63 enrolled. Mean age was 43 years, 67% were born male, 65% White, 17% African-American, and 14% Latino. Ninety-two percent of visits and 93% of counseling sessions were completed. At baseline, 33.3% of participants had experienced an overdose in the past four months, with a similar mean number of overdoses in both arms (p = 0.95); 29% overdosed during follow-up. By intention-to-treat, participants assigned to REBOOT were less likely to experience any overdose (incidence rate ratio [IRR] 0.62 [95%CI 0.41-0.92, p = 0.019) and experienced fewer overdose events (IRR 0.46, 95%CI 0.24-0.90, p = 0.023), findings that were robust to sensitivity analyses. There were no differences between arms in days of opioid use, substance use treatment, or naloxone carriage.CONCLUSIONS: REBOOT reduced the occurrence of any opioid overdose and the number of overdoses.TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov NCT02093559. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Drug Overdose#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Narcotic Antagonists#Opioid-Related Disorders#Pilot Projects#Risk Factors#Single-Blind Method#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Patients with cancer frequently suffer from emotional distress, characterized by psychological symptoms such as anxiety or depression. The presence of psychological symptoms combined with the complex nature of oncology processes can negatively impact patients' quality of life. We aimed to determine the impact of a relaxation protocol on improving quality of life in a sample of oncological patients treated in the Spanish National Public Health System.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a multicenter interventional study without a control group. In total, 272 patients with different oncologic pathologies and showing symptoms of anxiety were recruited from 10 Spanish public hospitals. The intervention comprised abbreviated progressive muscle relaxation training, according to Bernstein and Borkovec. This was followed by weekly telephone calls to each patient over a 1-month period. We collected sociodemographic variables related to the disease process, including information about mental health and the intervention. Patients' quality of life was assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire. Bivariate and univariate analyses were performed, along with an analysis of multiple correspondences to identify subgroups of patients with similar variations on the FACT-G.RESULTS: Patients showed statistically significant improvements on the FACT-G overall score (W = 16806; p<0.001), with an initial mean score of 55.33\xc2\xb110.42 and a final mean score of 64.49\xc2\xb17.70. We also found significant improvements for all subscales: emotional wellbeing (W = 13118; p<0.001), functional wellbeing (W = 16155.5; p<0.001), physical wellbeing (W = 8885.5; p<0.001), and social and family context (W = -1840; p = 0.037).CONCLUSIONS: Patients with cancer who learned and practiced abbreviated progressive muscle relaxation experienced improvement in their perceived quality of life as measured by the FACT-G. Our findings support a previous assumption that complementary techniques (including relaxation techniques) are effective in improving the quality of life of patients with cancer. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Muscle Relaxation#Neoplasms#Quality of Life#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: Preliminary studies suggested that Aboriginal Canadians had disproportionately higher rates of infection, hospitalization, and critical illness due to pandemic Influenza A(H1N1)pdm09.METHODS: We used a prospective cohort study of critically ill patients with laboratory confirmed or probable H1N1 infection in Canada between April 16 2009 and April 12 2010. Baseline characteristics, medical interventions, clinical course and outcomes were compared between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal patients. The primary outcome was hospital mortality.RESULTS: Of 647 critically ill adult patients with known ethnicity, 81 (12.5%) were Aboriginal, 566 (87.5%) were non-Aboriginal. Aboriginal patients were younger (mean [SD] age 40.7[13.7]v. 49.0[14.9] years, p<0.001) and more frequently female (64.2% v. 51.1%, p = 0.027). Rates of any co-morbid illnesses (Aboriginal v. non-Aboriginal, 92.6% v. 91.0%, p = 0.63), time from symptom onset to hospital admission (median [interquartile range] 4 [2-7]v. 4 [2-7] days, p = 0.84), time to ICU admission (5 [3-8]v.5 [3-8] days, p = 0.91), and severity of illness (mean APACHE II score (19.9 [9.6]v. 21.1 [9.9], p = 0.33) were similar. A similar proportion of Aboriginal patients received antiviral medication before ICU admission than non-Aboriginal patients (91.4% v. 93.8%, p = 0.40). Among Aboriginal versus non-Aboriginal patients, the need for mechanical ventilation (93.8% v. 88.6%, p = 0.15), ventilator-free days (14 [3-23]v. 17 [0-24], p = 0.62), durations of stay in ICU (13[7-19.5]v. 11 [5-8] days, p = 0.05), hospital (19 [12.5-33.5]v. 18 [11-35] days, p = 0.63), and hospital mortality were similar (19.8% v. 22.6%, p = 0.56). In multiple logistic regression analyses, higher APACHE II score (1.06; 1.04-1.09, p<0.001) was independently associated with an increased risk of death; antiviral treatment with a lower risk of death (0.34; 0.15 - 0.78, p = 0.01). Ethnicity was not associated with mortality.INTERPRETATION: During the 2009-2010 Influenza A (H1N1) pandemic, Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Canadians with H1N1-related critical illness had a similar risk of death, after adjusting for potential confounding factors. labels: #Adult#Canada#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H1N1 Subtype#Influenza, Human#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)'
b'Genetic mutations disrupting the structure and function of primary cilia cause various inherited retinal diseases in humans. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a genetically heterogeneous, pleiotropic ciliopathy characterized by retinal degeneration, obesity, postaxial polydactyly, intellectual disability, and genital and renal abnormalities. To gain insight into the mechanisms of retinal degeneration in BBS, we developed a congenital knockout mouse of Bbs8, as well as conditional mouse models in which function of the BBSome (a protein complex that mediates ciliary trafficking) can be temporally inactivated or restored. We demonstrate that BBS mutant mice have defects in retinal outer segment morphogenesis. We further demonstrate that removal of Bbs8 in adult mice affects photoreceptor function and disrupts the structural integrity of the outer segment. Notably, using a mouse model in which a gene trap inhibiting Bbs8 gene expression can be removed by an inducible FLP recombinase, we show that when BBS8 is restored in immature retinas with malformed outer segments, outer segment extension can resume normally and malformed outer segment discs are displaced distally by normal outer segment structures. Over time, the retinas of the rescued mice become morphologically and functionally normal, indicating that there is a window of plasticity when initial retinal outer segment morphogenesis defects can be ameliorated. labels: #Animals#Bardet-Biedl Syndrome#Cilia#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Models, Animal#Morphogenesis#Mutation#Photoreceptor Cells#Protein Transport#Retina'
b'Influenza pandemics can emerge unexpectedly and wreak global devastation. However, each of the six pandemics since 1889 emerged in the Northern Hemisphere just after the flu season, suggesting that pandemic timing may be predictable. Using a stochastic model fit to seasonal flu surveillance data from the United States, we find that seasonal flu leaves a transient wake of heterosubtypic immunity that impedes the emergence of novel flu viruses. This refractory period provides a simple explanation for not only the spring-summer timing of historical pandemics, but also early increases in pandemic severity and multiple waves of transmission. Thus, pandemic risk may be seasonal and predictable, with the accuracy of pre-pandemic and real-time risk assessments hinging on reliable seasonal influenza surveillance and precise estimates of the breadth and duration of heterosubtypic immunity. labels: #Computational Biology#Humans#Influenza, Human#Models, Biological#Pandemics#Risk#Seasons'
b'During vertebrate neurulation, the embryonic ectoderm is patterned into lineage progenitors for neural plate, neural crest, placodes and epidermis. Here, we use Xenopus laevis embryos to analyze the spatial and temporal transcriptome of distinct ectodermal domains in the course of neurulation, during the establishment of cell lineages. In order to define the transcriptome of small groups of cells from a single germ layer and to retain spatial information, dorsal and ventral ectoderm was subdivided along the anterior-posterior and medial-lateral axes by microdissections. Principal component analysis on the transcriptomes of these ectoderm fragments primarily identifies embryonic axes and temporal dynamics. This provides a genetic code to define positional information of any ectoderm sample along the anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral axes directly from its transcriptome. In parallel, we use nonnegative matrix factorization to predict enhanced gene expression maps onto early and mid-neurula embryos, and specific signatures for each ectoderm area. The clustering of spatial and temporal datasets allowed detection of multiple biologically relevant groups (e.g., Wnt signaling, neural crest development, sensory placode specification, ciliogenesis, germ layer specification). We provide an interactive network interface, EctoMap, for exploring synexpression relationships among genes expressed in the neurula, and suggest several strategies to use this comprehensive dataset to address questions in developmental biology as well as stem cell or cancer research. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Cluster Analysis#Databases, Genetic#Ectoderm#Gastrulation#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Gene Ontology#Gene Regulatory Networks#Humans#Internet#Microdissection#Neoplasms#Neural Crest#Neurons#Neurulation#Principal Component Analysis#Stem Cells#Time Factors#Transcriptome#Wnt Proteins#Xenopus laevis'
b"Musculoskeletal allografts are now commonly used. To decrease the potential risks of transmission of pathogenic bacteria, fungi, or viruses to the transplant recipients, certain issues regarding the management of patients who receive contaminated allografts need to be addressed. We aimed to clarify the incidence and extent of disease transmission from allografts by analyzing the allografting procedures performed in the bone bank of our hospital over the past 20 years. We retrospectively reviewed the data from our allograft registry center on 3979 allografts that were implanted in 3193 recipients throughout a period of two decades, from July 1991 to June 2011. The source of the allografts, results of all screening tests, dates of harvesting and implantation, and recipients of all allografts were checked. With the help of the Center for Infection Control of our hospital, a strict prospective, hospital-wide, on-site surveillance was conducted, and every patient with healthcare-associated infection was identified. Fisher's exact test was used to compare the infection rate between recipients with sterile allografts and those with contaminated allografts. The overall discard and infection rates were, respectively, 23% and 1.3% in the first decade (1991-2001); and 18.4% and 1.25% in the second decade (2001-2011). The infection rate of contaminated allograft recipients was significantly higher than that of sterile allograft recipients (10% vs. 1.15%, P<0.01) in the second decade. Both infection and discard rates of our bone bank are comparable with those of international bone banks. Strict allograft processing and adequate prophylactic use of antibiotics are critical to prevent infection and disease transmission in such cases. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Allografts#Bone Banks#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality Control#Retrospective Studies#Taiwan#Young Adult"
b'Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a hematological disorder leading to blood vessel occlusion accompanied by painful episodes and even death. Red blood cells (RBCs) of SCD patients have diverse shapes that reveal important biomechanical and bio-rheological characteristics, e.g. their density, fragility, adhesive properties, etc. Hence, having an objective and effective way of RBC shape quantification and classification will lead to better insights and eventual better prognosis of the disease. To this end, we have developed an automated, high-throughput, ex-vivo RBC shape classification framework that consists of three stages. First, we present an automatic hierarchical RBC extraction method to detect the RBC region (ROI) from the background, and then separate touching RBCs in the ROI images by applying an improved random walk method based on automatic seed generation. Second, we apply a mask-based RBC patch-size normalization method to normalize the variant size of segmented single RBC patches into uniform size. Third, we employ deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to realize RBC classification; the alternating convolution and pooling operations can deal with non-linear and complex patterns. Furthermore, we investigate the specific shape factor quantification for the classified RBC image data in order to develop a general multiscale shape analysis. We perform several experiments on raw microscopy image datasets from 8 SCD patients (over 7,000 single RBC images) through a 5-fold cross validation method both for oxygenated and deoxygenated RBCs. We demonstrate that the proposed framework can successfully classify sickle shape RBCs in an automated manner with high accuracy, and we also provide the corresponding shape factor analysis, which can be used synergistically with the CNN analysis for more robust predictions. Moreover, the trained deep CNN exhibits good performance even for a deoxygenated dataset and distinguishes the subtle differences in texture alteration inside the oxygenated and deoxygenated RBCs. labels: #Anemia, Sickle Cell#Computational Biology#Erythrocytes#Humans#Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Microscopy#Neural Networks (Computer)#Pattern Recognition, Automated'
b'Consistent across time and cultures, men and male adolescents older than 14 years of age appear underrepresented in mood disorders, and are far less likely than women to seek psychological help. The much higher rate of suicide amongst males suggests that depression in men might be underreported. One of the core human motives is to seek acceptance by others and avoid rejection. Rejection Sensitivity (RS) has been conceptualized as the cognitive-affective processing disposition to anxiously expect, readily perceive, and intensely respond to cues of rejection in the behavior of others. RS has been previously linked with the onset and course of depression, but-as yet-has not been investigated longitudinally in a clinical population. We investigated the predictive role of RS to symptom deterioration 6 months after end-of- treatment in 72 male inpatients with depressive spectrum disorder. The BDI was administered at intake, end-of-treatment and 6 month follow-up. RS scores were obtained at intake. Rejection Sensitivity had additional predictive power on BDI scores at 6 months follow-up controlling for BDI scores at end-of-treatment (\xce\x94R2 = .095). The results are discussed in terms of the importance of targeting RS during treatment, and highlight the fact that therapeutic follow-up care is paramount. Future research should investigate possible mediators of the RS-relapse-to-depression association, such as self-blame, rumination, neuroticism, pessimism, emotion dysregulation, and low self-esteem. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Depression#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Rejection (Psychology)#Young Adult'
b'PURPOSE: To use structural equation modelling (SEM) to determine (1) the direct and indirect associations of strength of paretic lower limb muscles with the level of community integration, and (2) the direct association of walking endurance and balance performance with the level of community integration in community-dwelling stroke survivors.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional study of 105 stroke survivors, the Subjective Index of Physical and Social Outcome (SIPSO) was used to measure the level of community integration. Lower-limb strength measures included isometric paretic ankle strength and isokinetic paretic knee peak torque. The Berg Balance Scale (BBS) and the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) were used to evaluate balance performance and walking endurance, respectively.RESULTS: SEM revealed that the distance walked on the 6MWT had the strongest direct association with the SIPSO score (\xce\xb2 = 0.41, p<0.001). An increase of one standard deviation in the 6MWT distance resulted in an increase of 0.41 standard deviations in the SIPSO score. Moreover, dorsiflexion strength (\xce\xb2 = 0.18, p = 0.044) and the BBS score (\xce\xb2 = 0.21, p = 0.021) had direct associations with the SIPSO score.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the proposed model suggest that rehabilitation training of community-dwelling stroke survivors could focus on walking endurance, balance performance and dorsiflexor muscle strengthening if the aim is to augment the level of community integration. labels: #Aged#Disability Evaluation#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Statistical#Muscle Strength#Postural Balance#Stroke#Stroke Rehabilitation#Survivors'
b'AIMS: Veno-arterial extracorporeal life support (ECLS) is an established method to stabilize acute circulatory failure. Parameters and data on when to ideally wean circulatory support are limited. Bilirubin is a marker of end-organ damage. Therefore, the purpose of this large study was to evaluate the impact of dynamic changes of elevated bilirubin levels on survival in patients on ECLS.METHODS AND RESULTS: We reviewed 502 consecutive cases of ECLS from 2007 to 2015. Bilirubin levels were recorded before implantation and until six days after explantation. Dynamic bilirubin changes, and hemodynamic and laboratory outcome parameters were compared in survivors and nonsurvivors. Reason for ECLS implantation was cardiac arrest with ongoing resuscitation in 230 (45.8%), low cardiac output in 174 (34.7%) and inability to wean off cardiopulmonary bypass in 98 (19.5%) patients. 307 (61.2%) patients were weaned off ECLS, however, 206 (41.0%) survived. Mean duration of ECLS was 3 (2-6) days, and survivors received significantly longer ECLS (5 vs 3 days, p<0.001). Survivors had significantly lower baseline bilirubin levels (p = 0.003). Bilirubin started to rise from day 2 in all patients. In survivors, bilirubin levels had trended down on the day of ECLS explantation and stayed at an acceptable level. However, in weaned patients who did not survive and patients who died on ECLS bilirubin levels continued to rise during the recorded period.CONCLUSION: ECLS support improves survival in patients with acute circulatory failure. Down trending bilirubin levels on veno-arterial ECLS indicate improved chances of successful weaning and survival in hemodynamically stable patients. labels: #Aged#Bilirubin#Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Shock#Survival Analysis'
b'The PubMed database offers an extensive set of publication data that can be useful, yet inherently complex to use without automated computational techniques. Data repositories such as the Genomic Data Commons (GDC) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) offer experimental data storage and retrieval as well as curated gene expression profiles. Genetic interaction databases, including Reactome and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, offer pathway and experiment data analysis using data curated from these publications and data repositories. We have created a method to generate and analyze consensus networks, inferring potential gene interactions, using large numbers of Bayesian networks generated by data mining publications in the PubMed database. Through the concept of network resolution, these consensus networks can be tailored to represent possible genetic interactions. We designed a set of experiments to confirm that our method is stable across variation in both sample and topological input sizes. Using gene product interactions from the KEGG pathway database and data mining PubMed publication abstracts, we verify that regardless of the network resolution or the inferred consensus network, our method is capable of inferring meaningful gene interactions through consensus Bayesian network generation with multiple, randomized topological orderings. Our method can not only confirm the existence of currently accepted interactions, but has the potential to hypothesize new ones as well. We show our method confirms the existence of known gene interactions such as JAK-STAT-PI3K-AKT-mTOR, infers novel gene interactions such as RAS- Bcl-2 and RAS-AKT, and found significant pathway-pathway interactions between the JAK-STAT signaling and Cardiac Muscle Contraction KEGG pathways. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Datasets as Topic#Protein Interaction Mapping#PubMed'
b'Paulownia tomentosa is a fast-growing tree species with multiple uses. It is grown worldwide, but is native to China, where it is widely cultivated in saline regions. We previously confirmed that autotetraploid P. tomentosa plants are more stress-tolerant than the diploid plants. However, the molecular mechanism underlying P. tomentosa salinity tolerance has not been fully characterized. Using the complete Paulownia fortunei genome as a reference, we applied next-generation RNA-sequencing technology to analyze the effects of salt stress on diploid and autotetraploid P. tomentosa plants. We generated 175 million clean reads and identified 15,873 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from four P. tomentosa libraries (two diploid and two autotetraploid). Functional annotations of the differentially expressed genes using the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases revealed that plant hormone signal transduction and photosynthetic activities are vital for plant responses to high-salt conditions. We also identified several transcription factors, including members of the AP2/EREBP, bHLH, MYB, and NAC families. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis validated the expression patterns of eight differentially expressed genes. Our findings and the generated transcriptome data may help to accelerate the genetic improvement of cultivated P. tomentosa and other plant species for enhanced growth in saline soils. labels: #Alternative Splicing#Gene Expression Profiling#Genes, Plant#Lamiales#Photosynthesis#Plant Growth Regulators#Ploidies#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Salt-Tolerance#Signal Transduction#Transcription Factors'
b"Ecological niche modeling (ENM) is a broadly used tool in different fields of plant ecology. Despite the importance of edaphic conditions in determining the niche of terrestrial plant species, edaphic data have rarely been included in ENMs of plant species perhaps because such data are not available for many regions. Recently, edaphic data has been made available at a global scale allowing its potential inclusion and evaluation on ENM performance for plant species. Here, we take advantage of such data and address the following main questions: What is the influence of distinct predictor variables (e.g. climatic vs edaphic) on different ENM algorithms? and what is the relationship between the performance of different predictors and geographic characteristics of species? We used 125 plant species distributed over the Neotropical region to explore the effect on ENMs of using edaphic data available from the SoilGrids database and its combination with climatic data from the CHELSA database. In addition, we related these different predictor variables to geographic characteristics of the target species and different ENM algorithms. The use of different predictors (climatic, edaphic, and both) significantly affected model performance and spatial complexity of the predictions. We showed that the use of global edaphic plus climatic variables generates ENMs with similar or better accuracy compared to those constructed only with climate variables. Moreover, the performance of models considering these different predictors, separately or jointly, was related to geographic properties of species records, such as number and distribution range. The large geographic extent, the variability of environments and the different species' geographical characteristics considered here allowed us to demonstrate that global edaphic data adds useful information for plant ENMs. This is particularly valuable for studies of species that are distributed in regions where more detailed information on soil properties is poor or does not even exist. labels: #Climate#Ecosystem#Models, Biological#Plants#Species Specificity"
b'The interplay between hemodynamic-based markers of cortical activity (e.g. fMRI and optical intrinsic signal imaging), which are an indirect and relatively slow report of neural activity, and underlying synaptic electrical and metabolic activity through neurovascular coupling is a topic of ongoing research and debate. As application of resting state functional connectivity measures is extended further into topics such as brain development, aging and disease, the importance of understanding the fundamental physiological basis for functional connectivity will grow. Here we extend functional connectivity analysis from hemodynamic- to calcium-based imaging. Transgenic mice (n = 7) expressing a fluorescent calcium indicator (GCaMP6) driven by the Thy1 promoter in glutamatergic neurons were imaged transcranially in both anesthetized (using ketamine/xylazine) and awake states. Sequential LED illumination (\xce\xbb = 454, 523, 595, 640nm) enabled concurrent imaging of both GCaMP6 fluorescence emission (corrected for hemoglobin absorption) and hemodynamics. Functional connectivity network maps were constructed for infraslow (0.009-0.08Hz), intermediate (0.08-0.4Hz), and high (0.4-4.0Hz) frequency bands. At infraslow and intermediate frequencies, commonly used in BOLD fMRI and fcOIS studies of functional connectivity and implicated in neurovascular coupling mechanisms, GCaMP6 and HbO2 functional connectivity structures were in high agreement, both qualitatively and also quantitatively through a measure of spatial similarity. The spontaneous dynamics of both contrasts had the highest correlation when the GCaMP6 signal was delayed with a ~0.6-1.5s temporal offset. Within the higher-frequency delta band, sensitive to slow wave sleep oscillations in non-REM sleep and anesthesia, we evaluate the speed with which the connectivity analysis stabilized and found that the functional connectivity maps captured putative network structure within time window lengths as short as 30 seconds. Homotopic GCaMP6 functional connectivity maps at 0.4-4.0Hz in the anesthetized states show a striking correlated and anti-correlated structure along the anterior to posterior axis. This structure is potentially explained in part by observed propagation of delta-band activity from frontal somatomotor regions to visuoparietal areas. During awake imaging, this spatio-temporal quality is altered, and a more complex and detailed functional connectivity structure is observed. The combined calcium/hemoglobin imaging technique described here will enable the dissociation of changes in ionic and hemodynamic functional structure and neurovascular coupling and provide a framework for subsequent studies of neurological disease such as stroke. labels: #Anesthesia#Animals#Brain Mapping#Calcium#Electroencephalography#Fluorescence#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Wakefulness'
b'We performed dye-enhanced imaging of mouse brain microvessels using spectral focusing coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (SF-CARS) microscopy. The resonant signals from C-H stretching in forward CARS usually show high background intensity in tissues, which makes CARS imaging of microvessels difficult. In this study, epi-detection of back-scattered SF-CARS signals showed a negligible background, but the overall intensity of resonant CARS signals was too low to observe the network of brain microvessels. Therefore, Evans blue (EB) dye was used as contrasting agent to enhance the back-scattered SF-CARS signals. Breakdown of brain microvessels by inducing hemorrhage in a mouse was clearly visualized using backward SF-CARS signals, following intravenous injection of EB. The improved visualization of brain microvessels with EB enhanced the sensitivity of SF-CARS, detecting not only the blood vessels themselves but their integrity as well in the brain vasculature. labels: #Animals#Brain#Evans Blue#Intracranial Hemorrhages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Microscopy#Microvessels#Spectrum Analysis, Raman'
b'X-ray microbeam radiotherapy can potentially widen the therapeutic window due to a geometrical redistribution of the dose. However, high requirements on photon flux, beam collimation, and system stability restrict its application mainly to large-scale, cost-intensive synchrotron facilities. With a unique laser-based Compact Light Source using inverse Compton scattering, we investigated the translation of this promising radiotherapy technique to a machine of future clinical relevance. We performed in vitro colony-forming assays and chromosome aberration tests in normal tissue cells after microbeam irradiation compared to homogeneous irradiation at the same mean dose using 25 keV X-rays. The microplanar pattern was achieved with a tungsten slit array of 50 \xce\xbcm slit size and a spacing of 350 \xce\xbcm. Applying microbeams significantly increased cell survival for a mean dose above 2 Gy, which indicates fewer normal tissue complications. The observation of significantly less chromosome aberrations suggests a lower risk of second cancer development. Our findings provide valuable insight into the mechanisms of microbeam radiotherapy and prove its applicability at a compact synchrotron, which contributes to its future clinical translation. labels: #Animals#CHO Cells#Cell Survival#Chromosome Aberrations#Cricetulus#HeLa Cells#Humans#Synchrotrons#X-Rays'
b'DNA barcoding is a fast and reliable tool to assess and monitor biodiversity and, via community phylogenetics, to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes that may be responsible for the community structure of forests. In this study, DNA barcodes for the two widely used plastid coding regions rbcL and matK are used to contribute to identification of morphologically undetermined individuals, as well as to investigate phylogenetic structure of tree communities in 70 subplots (10 \xc3\x97 10m) of a 25-ha forest-dynamics plot in Brunei (Borneo, Southeast Asia). The combined matrix (rbcL + matK) comprised 555 haplotypes (from \xe2\x89\xa5154 genera, 68 families and 25 orders sensu APG, Angiosperm Phylogeny Group, 2016), making a substantial contribution to tree barcode sequences from Southeast Asia. Barcode sequences were used to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships using maximum likelihood, both with and without constraining the topology of taxonomic orders to match that proposed by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group. A third phylogenetic tree was reconstructed using the program Phylomatic to investigate the influence of phylogenetic resolution on results. Detection of non-random patterns of community assembly was determined by net relatedness index (NRI) and nearest taxon index (NTI). In most cases, community assembly was either random or phylogenetically clustered, which likely indicates the importance to community structure of habitat filtering based on phylogenetically correlated traits in determining community structure. Different phylogenetic trees gave similar overall results, but the Phylomatic tree produced greater variation across plots for NRI and NTI values, presumably due to noise introduced by using an unresolved phylogenetic tree. Our results suggest that using a DNA barcode tree has benefits over the traditionally used Phylomatic approach by increasing precision and accuracy and allowing the incorporation of taxonomically unidentified individuals into analyses. labels: #Borneo#DNA Barcoding, Taxonomic#DNA, Plant#Databases, Genetic#Forests#Likelihood Functions#Phylogeny#Plants'
b'This article presents a novel connectivity analysis method that is suitable for multi-node networks such as EEG, MEG or EcOG electrode recordings. Its diagnostic power and ability to interpret brain states in schizophrenia is demonstrated on a set of 50 subjects that constituted of 25 healthy and 25 diagnosed with schizophrenia and treated with medication. The method can also be used for the automatic detection of schizophrenia; it exhibits higher sensitivity than state-of-the-art methods with no false positives. The detection is based on an analysis from a minute long pattern-recognition computer task. Moreover, this connectivity analysis leads naturally to an optimal choice of electrodes and hence to highly statistically significant results that are based on data from only 3-5 electrodes. The method is general and can be used for the diagnosis of other psychiatric conditions, provided an appropriate computer task is devised. labels: #Brain Mapping#Electroencephalography#Humans#Schizophrenia'
b'Fundamental understanding and characterization of neural response to substrate topography is essential in the development of next generation biomaterials for nerve repair. Aerogels are a new class of materials with great potential as a biomaterial. In this work, we examine the extension of neurites by PC12 cells plated on matrigel-coated and collagen-coated mesoporous aerogel surfaces. We have successfully established the methodology for adhesion and growth of PC12 cells on polyurea crosslinked silica aerogels. Additionally, we have quantified neurite behaviors and compared their response on aerogel substrates with their behavior on tissue culture (TC) plastic, and polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). We found that, on average, PC12 cells extend longer neurites on crosslinked silica aerogels than on tissue culture plastic, and, that the average number of neurites per cluster is lower on aerogels than on tissue culture plastic. Aerogels are an attractive candidate for future development of smart neural implants and the work presented here creates a platform for future work with this class of materials as a substrate for bioelectronic interfacing. labels: #Animals#Dimethylpolysiloxanes#Gels#Humans#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Neurites#PC12 Cells#Plastics#Rats#Silicon Dioxide#Surface Properties'
b'BACKGROUND: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) prevalence is increasing and becoming a major public health concern. Whether a Mediterranean diet can help prevent GDM in unselected pregnant women has yet to be studied.METHODS: We conducted a prospective, randomized controlled trial to evaluate the incidence of GDM with two different dietary models. All consecutive normoglycemic (<92 mg/dL) pregnant women at 8-12 gestational weeks (GW) were assigned to Intervention Group (IG, n = 500): MedDiet supplemented with extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) and pistachios; or Control Group (CG, n = 500): standard diet with limited fat intake. Primary outcome was to assess the effect of the intervention on GDM incidence at 24-28 GW. Gestational weight gain (GWG), pregnancy-induced hypertension, caesarean section (CS), preterm delivery, perineal trauma, small and large for gestational age (SGA and LGA) and admissions to neonatal intensive care unit were also assessed. Analysis was by intention-to-treat.RESULTS: A total of 874 women completed the study (440/434, CG/IG). According to nutritional questionnaires and biomarker analysis, women in the IG had a good adherence to the intervention. 177/874 women were diagnosed with GDM, 103/440 (23.4%) in CG and 74/434(17.1%) in IG, p = 0.012. The crude relative risk (RR) for GDM was 0.73 (95% CI: 0.56-0.95; p = 0.020) IG vs CG and persisted after adjusted multivariable analysis, 0.75(95% CI: 0.57-0.98; p = 0.039). IG had also significantly reduced rates of insulin-treated GDM, prematurity, GWG at 24-28 and 36-38 GW, emergency CS, perineal trauma, and SGA and LGA newborns (all p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: An early nutritional intervention with a supplemented MedDiet reduces the incidence of GDM and improves several maternal and neonatal outcomes. labels: #Adult#Diabetes, Gestational#Diet, Mediterranean#Female#Humans#Incidence#Infant, Newborn#Life Style#Olive Oil#Pistacia#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Prospective Studies'
b'Pathogen spread between farms results from interaction between the epidemiological characteristics of infectious agents, such as transmission route, and the contact structure between holdings. The objective of our study was to design network models of pig movements matching with epidemiological features of pathogens. Our first model represents the transmission of infectious diseases between farms only through the introduction of animals to holdings (Animal Introduction Model AIM), whereas the second one also accounts for pathogen spread through intermediate transit of trucks through farms even without any animal unloading (i.e. indirect transmission-Transit Model TM). To take the pyramidal organisation of pig production into consideration, these networks were studied at three different scales: the whole network and two subnetworks containing only breeding or production farms. The two models were applied to pig movement data recorded in France from June 2012 to December 2014. For each type of model, we calculated network descriptive statistics, looked for weakly/strongly connected components (WCCs/SCCs) and communities, and analysed temporal patterns. Whatever the model, the network exhibited scale-free and small-world topologies. Differences in centrality values between the two models showed that nucleus, multiplication and post-weaning farms played a key role in the spread of diseases transmitted exclusively by the introduction of infected animals, whereas farrowing and farrow-to-finish herds appeared more vulnerable to the introduction of infectious diseases through indirect contacts. The second network was less fragmented than the first one, a giant SCC being detected. The topology of network communities also varied with modelling assumptions: in the first approach, a huge geographically dispersed community was found, whereas the second model highlighted several small geographically clustered communities. These results underline the relevance of developing network models corresponding to pathogen features (e.g. their transmission route), and the need to target specific types of holdings/areas for surveillance depending on the epidemiological context. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#France#Swine#Swine Diseases#Transportation'
b"Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope gp120 is partly an intrinsically disordered (unstructured/disordered) protein as it contains regions that do not fold into well-defined protein structures. These disordered regions play important roles in HIV's life cycle, particularly, V3 loop-dependent cell entry, which determines how the virus uses two coreceptors on immune cells, the chemokine receptors CCR5 (R5), CXCR4 (X4) or both (R5X4 virus). Most infecting HIV-1 variants utilise CCR5, while a switch to CXCR4-use occurs in the majority of infections. Why does this 'rewiring' event occur in HIV-1 infected patients? As changes in the charge of the V3 loop are associated with this receptor switch and it has been suggested that charged residues promote structure disorder, we hypothesise that the intrinsic disorder of the V3 loop is permissive to sequence variation thus contributing to the switch in cell tropism. To test this we use three independent data sets of gp120 to analyse V3 loop disorder. We find that the V3 loop of X4 virus has significantly higher intrinsic disorder tendency than R5 and R5X4 virus, while R5X4 virus has the lowest. These results indicate that structural disorder plays an important role in HIV-1 cell tropism and CXCR4 binding. We discuss the potential evolutionary mechanisms leading to the fixation of disorder promoting mutations and the adaptive potential of protein structural disorder in viral host adaptation. labels: #HIV Envelope Protein gp120#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Protein Conformation#Viral Proteins"
b'Reducing duplicated data of database backups is an important application scenario for data deduplication technology. NewSQL is an emerging database system and is now being used more and more widely. NewSQL systems need to improve data reliability by periodically backing up in-memory data, resulting in a lot of duplicated data. The traditional deduplication method is not optimized for the NewSQL server system and cannot take full advantage of hardware resources to optimize deduplication performance. A recent research pointed out that the future NewSQL server will have thousands of CPU cores, large DRAM and huge NVRAM. Therefore, how to utilize these hardware resources to optimize the performance of data deduplication is an important issue. To solve this problem, we propose a deduplication optimization method (DOMe) for NewSQL system backup. To take advantage of the large number of CPU cores in the NewSQL server to optimize deduplication performance, DOMe parallelizes the deduplication method based on the fork-join framework. The fingerprint index, which is the key data structure in the deduplication process, is implemented as pure in-memory hash table, which makes full use of the large DRAM in NewSQL system, eliminating the performance bottleneck problem of fingerprint index existing in traditional deduplication method. The H-store is used as a typical NewSQL database system to implement DOMe method. DOMe is experimentally analyzed by two representative backup data. The experimental results show that: 1) DOMe can reduce the duplicated NewSQL backup data. 2) DOMe significantly improves deduplication performance by parallelizing CDC algorithms. In the case of the theoretical speedup ratio of the server is 20.8, the speedup ratio of DOMe can achieve up to 18; 3) DOMe improved the deduplication throughput by 1.5 times through the pure in-memory index optimization method. labels: #Databases, Factual#Programming Languages'
b'BACKGROUND: Vascular calcification is associated with structural and functional abnormality of the heart and blood vessels. We investigated the relationship between intradialytic hypotension (IDH) and vascular calcification in hemodialysis (HD) patients, and their impacts on cardiovascular events (CVEs).METHOD: We enrolled 191 maintenance HD patients who underwent plain abdomen radiography for abdominal aortic calcification score (AACS). A nadir systolic blood pressure (BP)<90 mm Hg or the requirement of bolus fluid administration was required to quantify the hypotension diagnosis. IDH was defined as>2 hypotension episodes during 10 HD treatments.RESULTS: Among the 191 patients, IDH occurred in 32. AACS was higher in the IDH group compared with the no-IDH group (8.4 \xc2\xb1 6.0 vs. 4.9 \xc2\xb1 5.2, respectively; P = 0.001). High AACS was an independent risk factor after adjustment for age, diabetes mellitus, ultrafiltration, diastolic BP, and calcium level (odds ratio (OR) = 1.09, 95% CI = 1.01-1.18; P = 0.03). Patients with both IDH and AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 had the highest cumulative CVE rate (27.9%, P = 0.008) compared with 11.2%, 12.5%, and 6% for those with AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 only, with IDH only, and neither, respectively. In multivariate analysis, the presence of both IDH and AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 was a significant predictor of CVE (hazard ratio (HR) = 2.84, 95% CI = 1.04-7.74, P = 0.04).CONCLUSION: IDH is associated with abdominal aortic calcification and is an independent risk factor for IDH. Both IDH and high AACS were significant predictors of CVE. labels: #Aged#Aorta#Female#Humans#Hypotension#Male#Middle Aged#Renal Dialysis#Vascular Calcification'
b'Prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) in children is increasing and identifying the risk factors for MetS during childhood is an important first step to prevent chronic diseases later in life. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence of MetS and cardiometabolic risk factor (CMRF) clustering among Korean children and adolescents and to validate the associated anthropometric and laboratory surrogate markers. We used data from the 2011-2014 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. In total, data for 2,935 subjects (1539 boys, 52.6%) aged 10-19 years were assessed. MetS was defined by central obesity plus any two or more of CMRFs such as abdominal obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and decreased high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) using the International Diabetes Federation criteria for children and adolescents. The presence of two or more CMRFs was classified as CMRF clustering. The prevalence of MetS and CMRF clustering in this group was found to be 1.8% and 8.9%, respectively. The receiver operating characteristic analysis of MetS and CMRF clustering, and the area under the curve (95% confidence interval) of surrogate markers revealed that the waist circumference to height ratio [0.960 (95% CI 0.959-0.960), cut-off 0.491]showed the highest predictability for MetS whereas triglyceride to HDL-C ratio [0.891 (95% CI 0.891-0.892), cut-off 2.63] showed the highest predictability for CMRF clustering. Long-term follow-up is needed for further validation. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Biomarkers#Child#Cluster Analysis#Female#Humans#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Nutrition Surveys#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The influenza B viruses belong to two lineages distinguished by their genetic and antigenic characteristics, which are referred to as the Yamagata and Victoria lineages, designated after their original isolates, B/Yamagata/16/88 and B/Victoria/2/87. The primary aim of this study was to evaluate the molecular characteristics of influenza B viruses circulating in a region of Northern Italy, Lombardia, during the influenza season of 2015-2016.METHODS: Influenza B virus was detected using a respiratory virus panel of assays and an influenza B-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction. The complete influenza B hemagglutinin (HA) gene was amplified and sequenced directly from clinical specimens. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using nucleotide sequences.RESULTS: A total of 71 hospitalized pediatric patients were influenza B positive. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the great majority of influenza B strains (66/71, 93.0%) belonged to the Victoria-lineage and were antigenically like vaccine strain (B/Brisbane/60/2008) included only in the quadrivalent vaccine. In the detected influenza B strains, a series of amino acid changes were observed in the antigenic regions: I117V, V124A, N129D, V146I, N197D, T199A, and A202T. However, only 2 amino acid changes were observed in the HA regions involved in receptor binding or in antibody recognition.CONCLUSIONS: All the influenza B strains identified in this study belonged to the influenza B Victoria lineage not included in the trivalent vaccine commonly used by the general population during the 2015-2016 influenza season in Italy. This indicates that protection against influenza B infection in the vaccinated population was in general very poor during the 2015-2016 influenza season. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Child#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Influenza B virus#Influenza, Human#Italy#Phylogeny#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Viral Proteins'
b'Ototoxicity is a significant side effect of a number of drugs, including the aminoglycoside antibiotics and platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents that are used to treat life-threatening illnesses. Although much progress has been made, the mechanisms that lead to ototoxic loss of inner ear sensory hair cells (HCs) remains incompletely understood. Given the critical role of protein phosphorylation in intracellular processes, including both damage and survival signaling, we screened a library of kinase inhibitors targeting members of all the major families in the kinome. Micro-explants from the organ of Corti of mice in which only the sensory cells express GFP were exposed to 200 \xce\xbcM of the ototoxic aminoglycoside gentamicin with or without three dosages of each kinase inhibitor. The loss of sensory cells was compared to that seen with gentamicin alone, or without treatment. Of the 160 inhibitors, 15 exhibited a statistically significant protective effect, while 3 significantly enhanced HC loss. The results confirm some previous studies of kinase involvement in HC damage and survival, and also highlight several novel potential kinase pathway contributions to ototoxicity. labels: #Aminoglycosides#Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Enzyme Inhibitors#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Organ of Corti#Phosphotransferases'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent studies on the variants in duplicated human alpha globin genes (HBA2 and HBA1) actively target the \xce\xb1-globin gene as molecular modulators for the treatment of \xce\xb2-thalassemia major. Identification of the exact position of variant in HBA1, HBA2 or its patchworks is mandatory to support the therapeutic aims in \xce\xb2-thalassemia major, by identifying specific modulators for the reactivation of fetal hemoglobin production. Hence, accurate identification of the variants in \xce\xb1-globin genes is crucial for the proper diagnosis, treatment and genetic counseling.METHOD: The objective was to reveal the annotation errors produced in \xce\xb1-globin gene sequence analysis while using different analytic tools. An HBA2 gene sequence with the HBA2:c.95+2_95+6delTGAGG variant and a recently reported HBA12 gene convert have been taken as examples to prove annotation error in \xce\xb1-globin gene from different analytic tools.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Although various bioinformatics tools used to predict variants are usually of high reliability, the current study using the an alpha globin 2 sequence with the HBA2:c.95+2_95+6delTGAGG variant and a recently reported HBA12 gene convert, has showcased ambiguous outputs among the three bioinformatics tools used and against the manual analytical method adopted.CONCLUSIONS: This report emphasizes the necessity for caution in the usage of DNA sequence analysis tools during molecular diagnosis and the importance of the selection of more appropriate tools for analysis. Furthermore, ethnic specific sequences should be considered as reference sequence for the analysis to bypass sequence dissimilarities among diverse populations. labels: #Humans#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#alpha-Globins#beta-Thalassemia'
b'OBJECTIVE: To explore the association of working hours and occupational physical activity (OPA) with the occurrence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in a Chinese population.METHODS: A total of 595 participants (354 and 241 patients with and without CHD, respectively) aged between 24 and 65 were enrolled in our study, which was conducted at the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University between December 2015 and October 2016. Participant characteristics were collected from face-to-face questionnaires, and logistic regression analysis was conducted to examine the association of working hours and OPA with the occurrence of CHD.RESULTS: Compared with non-employed people, long working hours (especially \xe2\x89\xa555 hours/week) contributed to the occurrence of CHD (adjusted odds ratio[OR] = 2.213, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.125, 4.355, P = 0.021) after multivariate adjustment in the Chinese population. With the extension of worktime, the CHD risk increased (P for the dose-response trend = 0.022). Meanwhile, even after adjusting for engagement in physical activity during leisure time, sedentary behavior at work had an adverse effect on CHD risk (adjusted OR = 2.794, 95%CI: 1.526, 5.115, P = 0.001), and a linear relationship was also found between OPA and CHD (P for the trend = 0.005).CONCLUSIONS: Long working hours and sedentary behavior at work are associated with a high risk of CHD. In addition, prolonged working hours in sedentary occupations increases the risk of CHD, independent of engagement in leisure time physical activity. labels: #Case-Control Studies#China#Coronary Disease#Employment#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupations'
b"BACKGROUND: The knowledge on health interests of a given population of Internet users might contribute to the increase of evidence on community's dental needs, and consequently, to the improvement of public health planning. The frequency of searches for specific issues on Google can be analyzed by the application of Google Trends.AIM: In this study, we aimed to characterize the interests on toothache information of Google users from the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Brazil.METHODS: The monthly variation of relative search volume (RSV) and the lists of main toothache-related queries were determined from January 2004 through April 2016 using Google Trends. Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) forecasting models were developed to determine predictive RSV values for toothache for additional 12 months. Autocorrelation plots and general additive model (GAM) were applied to determine trends and seasonality in RSV curves. Through linear regression models, we assessed the association between the variation of annual means of RSV values and national statistics for toothache in the U.S. and U.K. Subsequently, the distribution of main queries according to the identification of endodontic pain, type of searching information, and the interest in self-management of toothache was evaluated for the four countries.RESULTS: The autocorrelation plots showed patterns of non-stationary time series. The monthly variation influenced the data of the U.S. and U.K., with the higher RSV values found respectively in January/July and December. Also, the interest on toothache in the U.K. increases in the second semester and in the fourth quarter, especially in December. Additionally, an annual variation affected significantly all time series, with the increment of RSV means over the years, varying from 265% in the U.S. to 745% in Brazil. In parallel, the increments in RSV values were also observed in all predictive curves. The annual variation of observed and fitted RSV values was directly associated with the increase of toothache visits in the U.S. and urgent dental treatments in the U.K. Moreover, the queries typed on Google were markedly linked to searches on endodontic pain information, especially in Brazil, where the residents usually searched for relief and/or self-management of pain.CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, these findings indicate an increasing interest of Google users on toothache-related topics, regardless of country and season. The Internet activity can be used by policy makers as a complementary source of data for the development and implementation of strategies to control and prevent toothache complications. labels: #Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Internet#Search Engine#Toothache"
b'BACKGROUND: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) has high mortality rate but prognostic factors are not well established. The aim of our study was to evaluate the trend in in-hospital mortality over a period of 11 years and identify factors affecting the clinical outcomes of patients with IPA.METHOD: We conducted a nationwide inpatient population study using data from the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database. A total of 407 IPA patients from 2002 to 2012 were included in the study. Differences in demographics, comorbidities, and treatment were evaluated between in-hospital death group and survival group. Multivariate analysis was also performed to identify risk factors for mortality.RESULT: Male patients represented 63.14% of the patients (n = 257) and the mean age was 53.15 \xc2\xb1 20.93 years. Hematological cancer (n = 216, 53.07%) and diabetes mellitus (n = 75, 18.43%) were the most common underlying conditions. The overall case fatality rate was 30.22% with female slightly higher then male (32.67% versus 28.79%). The in-hospital case fatality rate increased since 2002 and peaked in 2006. It then declined over time with an in-hospital mortality of 25% in 2012. The in-hospital death group had a higher intubation rate (p<0.0001), a longer ICU stay (p = 0.0062), higher percentages of DM (p = 0.0412) and COPD (p = 0.0178), and a lower percentage of hematological cancer (p = 0.0079) as compared to survivor. The in-hospital death group was more likely to have steroid treatment (p<0.0001), develop acute renal failure (p<0.0001) and other infectious diseases (p = 0.0008) during hospitalization. Multivariate analysis identified female gender, older age (\xe2\x89\xa5 65 years old), intubation, bone marrow transplantation, acute renal failure, other infectious diseases and steroid use as predictive factors for mortality.CONCLUSION: The present study shows the trend in mortality among patients with IPA over an 11-year period. Female gender, older age, intubation, bone marrow transplantation, acute renal failure, other infectious diseases and steroid use were identified as risk factors for mortality. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Taiwan#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Genomic loci with regulatory potential can be annotated with various properties. For example, genomic sites bound by a given transcription factor (TF) can be divided according to whether they are proximal or distal to known promoters. Sites can be further labeled according to the cell types and conditions in which they are active. Given such a collection of labeled sites, it is natural to ask what sequence features are associated with each annotation label. However, discovering such label-specific sequence features is often confounded by overlaps between the labels; e.g. if regulatory sites specific to a given cell type are also more likely to be promoter-proximal, it is difficult to assess whether motifs identified in that set of sites are associated with the cell type or associated with promoters. In order to meet this challenge, we developed SeqUnwinder, a principled approach to deconvolving interpretable discriminative sequence features associated with overlapping annotation labels. We demonstrate the novel analysis abilities of SeqUnwinder using three examples. Firstly, SeqUnwinder is able to unravel sequence features associated with the dynamic binding behavior of TFs during motor neuron programming from features associated with chromatin state in the initial embryonic stem cells. Secondly, we characterize distinct sequence properties of multi-condition and cell-specific TF binding sites after controlling for uneven associations with promoter proximity. Finally, we demonstrate the scalability of SeqUnwinder to discover cell-specific sequence features from over one hundred thousand genomic loci that display DNase I hypersensitivity in one or more ENCODE cell lines. labels: #Binding Sites#Cell Line#Cell Lineage#Chromatin#Computational Biology#Deoxyribonuclease I#Embryonic Stem Cells#Gene Expression Regulation#Genetic Loci#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Regulatory Sequences, Nucleic Acid#Software#Transcription Factors'
b'The aim of the present study was to examine the role of PGC-1\xce\xb1 in intensity dependent exercise and exercise training-induced metabolic adaptations in mouse skeletal muscle. Whole body PGC-1\xce\xb1 knockout (KO) and littermate wildtype (WT) mice performed a single treadmill running bout at either low intensity (LI) for 40 min or moderate intensity (MI) for 20 min. Blood and quadriceps muscles were removed either immediately after exercise or at 3h or 6h into recovery from exercise and from resting controls. In addition PGC-1\xce\xb1 KO and littermate WT mice were exercise trained at either low intensity (LIT) for 40 min or at moderate intensity (MIT) for 20 min 2 times pr. day for 5 weeks. In the first and the last week of the intervention period, mice performed a graded running endurance test. Quadriceps muscles were removed before and after the training period for analyses. The acute exercise bout elicited intensity dependent increases in LC3I and LC3II protein and intensity independent decrease in p62 protein in skeletal muscle late in recovery and increased LC3II with exercise training independent of exercise intensity and volume in WT mice. Furthermore, acute exercise and exercise training did not increase LC3I and LC3II protein in PGC-1\xce\xb1 KO. In addition, exercise-induced mRNA responses of PGC-1\xce\xb1 isoforms were intensity dependent. In conclusion, these findings indicate that exercise intensity affected autophagy markers differently in skeletal muscle and suggest that PGC-1\xce\xb1 regulates both acute and exercise training-induced autophagy in skeletal muscle potentially in a PGC-1\xce\xb1 isoform specific manner. labels: #Animals#Epinephrine#Female#Glycogen#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Gamma Coactivator 1-alpha#Phosphorylation#Physical Conditioning, Animal#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'BACKGROUND: Therapeutic interchange of a same class medication for an outpatient medication is a widespread practice during hospitalization in response to limited hospital formularies. However, therapeutic interchange may increase risk of medication errors. The objective was to characterize the prevalence and safety of therapeutic interchange.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Secondary analysis of a transitions of care study. We included patients over age 64 admitted to a tertiary care hospital between 2009-2010 with heart failure, pneumonia, or acute coronary syndrome who were taking a medication in any of six commonly-interchanged classes on admission: proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2 blockers), hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). There was limited electronic medication reconciliation support available. Main measures were presence and accuracy of therapeutic interchange during hospitalization, and rate of medication reconciliation errors on discharge. We examined charts of 303 patients taking 555 medications at time of admission in the six medication classes of interest. A total of 244 (44.0%) of medications were therapeutically interchanged to an approved formulary drug at admission, affecting 64% of the study patients. Among the therapeutically interchanged drugs, we identified 78 (32.0%) suspected medication conversion errors. The discharge medication reconciliation error rate was 11.5% among the 244 therapeutically interchanged medications, compared with 4.2% among the 311 unchanged medications (relative risk [RR] 2.75, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.45-5.19).CONCLUSIONS: Therapeutic interchange was prevalent among hospitalized patients in this study and elevates the risk for potential medication errors during and after hospitalization. Improved electronic systems for managing therapeutic interchange and medication reconciliation may be valuable. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Male#Medication Reconciliation#Patient Discharge#Retrospective Studies'
b'The prognosis of paraquat (PQ) poisoning is highly correlated to plasma PQ concentration, which has been identified as the most important index in PQ poisoning. This study investigated the predictive value of coagulation, liver, and kidney indices in prognosticating PQ-poisoning patients, when aligned with plasma PQ concentrations. Coagulation, liver, and kidney indices were first analyzed by variance analysis, receiver operating characteristic curves, and Fisher discriminant analysis. Then, a new, intelligent, machine learning-based system was established to effectively provide prognostic analysis of PQ-poisoning patients based on a combination of the aforementioned indices. In the proposed system, an enhanced extreme learning machine wrapped with a grey wolf-optimization strategy was developed to predict the risk status from a pool of 103 patients (56 males and 47 females); of these, 52 subjects were deceased and 51 alive. The proposed method was rigorously evaluated against this real-life dataset, in terms of accuracy, Matthews correlation coefficients, sensitivity, and specificity. Additionally, the feature selection was investigated to identify correlating factors for risk status. The results demonstrated that there were significant differences in the coagulation, liver, and kidney indices between deceased and surviving subjects (p<0.05). Aspartate aminotransferase, prothrombin time, prothrombin activity, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, urea nitrogen, and creatinine were the most highly correlated indices in PQ poisoning and showed statistical significance (p<0.05) in predicting PQ-poisoning prognoses. According to the feature selection, the most important correlated indices were found to be associated with aspartate aminotransferase, the aspartate aminotransferase to alanine ratio, creatinine, prothrombin time, and prothrombin activity. The method proposed here showed excellent results that were better than that produced based on blood-PQ concentration alone. These promising results indicated that the combination of these indices can provide a new avenue for prognosticating the outcome of PQ poisoning. labels: #Blood Coagulation#Herbicides#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Function Tests#Liver#Liver Function Tests#Machine Learning#Paraquat#Prognosis'
b"Many of the world's food-insecure and undernourished people are smallholder farmers in developing countries. This is especially true in Africa. There is an urgent need to make smallholder agriculture and food systems more nutrition-sensitive. African farm households are known to consume a sizeable part of what they produce at home. Less is known about how much subsistence agriculture actually contributes to household diets, and how this contribution changes seasonally. We use representative data from rural Ethiopia covering every month of one full year to address this knowledge gap. On average, subsistence production accounts for 58% of rural households' calorie consumption, that is, 42% of the calories consumed are from purchased foods. Some seasonal variation occurs. During the lean season, purchased foods account for more than half of all calories consumed. But even during the main harvest and post-harvest season, purchased foods contribute more than one-third to total calorie consumption. Markets are even more important for dietary quality. During all seasons, purchased foods play a much larger role for dietary diversity than subsistence production. These findings suggest that strengthening rural markets needs to be a key element in strategies to improve food security and dietary quality in the African small-farm sector. labels: #Agriculture#Developing Countries#Diet#Ethiopia#Food Supply#Rural Population#Seasons"
b'BACKGROUND: The incidence of oropharyngeal cancer (OPC) in New Zealand (NZ) has more than doubled over the last 14 years with 126 cases in 2010. Overseas studies have shown that human papillomavirus (HPV) plays a significant role in the development of these cancers. However, the role of HPV in OPC and the burden on the NZ health system is unclear.AIM: The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence and the genotypes of HPV associated with OPC in New Zealand.METHODS: In this study, 621 OPC were identified from cancer registry data from 1996-98, 2003-05, and 2010-12. Biopsies of 267 cases were then retrieved from laboratories throughout New Zealand. p16 immunohistochemistry and a human beta globin PCR were performed on all specimens. HPV genotyping was performed on all beta globin positive specimens using real-time PCR with melt analysis.RESULTS: Using a p16/PCR algorithm, 77.9% (95% CI: 71.1-83.5%) of cases were attributable to HPV. Of these, 98.5% were HPV 16 positive. There was also one case each of HPV 33 and 35. The percentage of HPV positive cases increased from 61.9% (95% CI: 40.9%- 79.2%) in 1996-98 to 87.5% (95% CI: 79.8%- 92.5%) in 2010-12. Results from the multivariable model, adjusted for sex and ethnicity found statistically significant associations between HPV positivity and timeframe (OR: 5.65, 95% CI: 2.60-12.30, 2010-12 vs 1996-98), and between HPV positivity and patient age (OR: 0.55, 95% CI: 0.33-0.99, \xe2\x89\xa561 years vs \xe2\x89\xa460 years).CONCLUSIONS: This data is consistent with data from other developed countries showing an increase in cases of HPV positive OPC in New Zealand, and the majority of cases being attributable to HPV 16. These results support the recent inclusion of males into the nationally funded immunization schedule for Gardasil\xc2\xae 9. labels: #Alphapapillomavirus#DNA, Viral#Humans#New Zealand#Oropharyngeal Neoplasms#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Registries'
b'Several authors have studied the influence of light on both human physiology and emotions. Blue light has been proved to reduce sleepiness by suppression of melatonin secretion and it is also present in many emotion-related studies. Most of these have a common lack of objective methodology since results and conclusions are based on subjective perception of emotions. The aim of this work was the objective assessment of the effect of blue lighting in post-stress relaxation, in comparison with white lighting, by means of bio-signals and standardized procedures. We conducted a study in which twelve healthy volunteers were stressed and then performed a relaxation session within a chromotherapy room with blue (test group) or white (control group) lighting. We conclude that the blue lighting accelerates the relaxation process after stress in comparison with conventional white lighting. The relaxation time decreased by approximately three-fold (1.1 vs. 3.5 minutes). We also observed a convergence time (3.5-5 minutes) after which the advantage of blue lighting disappeared. This supports the relationship between color of light and stress, and the observations reported in previous works. These findings could be useful in clinical and educational environments, as well as in daily-life context and emerging technologies such as neuromarketing. However, our study must be extended to draw reliable conclusions and solid scientific evidence. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Color#Electrocardiography#Electroencephalography#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Light#Male#Relaxation Therapy#Stress, Psychological#Young Adult'
b'The gender gap in STEM fields has prompted a great deal of discussion, but what factors underlie performance deficits remain poorly understood. We show that female students underperformed on exams compared to their male counterparts across ten large introductory biology course sections in fall 2016 (N>1500 students). Females also reported higher levels of test anxiety and course-relevant science interest. Results from mediation analyses revealed an intriguing pattern: for female students only, and regardless of their academic standing, test anxiety negatively impacted exam performance, while interest in the course-specific science topics increased exam performance. Thus, instructors seeking equitable classrooms can aim to decrease test anxiety and increase student interest in science course content. We provide strategies for mitigating test anxiety and suggestions for alignment of course content with student interest, with the hope of successfully reimagining the STEM pathway as one that is equally accessible to all. labels: #Biology#Female#Humans#Male#Sex Factors'
b"AIMS: To examine whether physical activity as an adjunct to outpatient alcohol treatment has an effect on alcohol consumption following participation in an exercise intervention of six months' duration, and at 12 months after treatment initiation.METHODS: The study is a randomized controlled study with three arms: Patients allocated to (A) treatment as usual, (B) treatment as usual and supervised group exercise, (C) treatment as usual and individual physical exercise. The primary outcome measure was excessive drinking six months after treatment start and completion of the intervention. A logistic regression model was used to evaluate the odds of excessive drinking among the three groups, based on intention-to-treat. Changes in level of physical activity in all three groups were tested by using a generalized linear mixed model. A multiple linear model was used to test if there was an association between amount of performed physical activity and alcohol consumption.RESULTS: A total of 175 patients (68.6% male) participated. Response rates were 77.7% at six months and 57.1% at 12 months follow-up. OR 0.99 [95% CI: 0.46; 2.14], p = 0.976 for excessive drinking in the group exercise condition, and 1.02 [95% CI: 0.47; 2.18], p = 0.968 in the individual exercise condition, which, when compared to the control group as reference, did not differ statistically significantly. Participants with moderate level physical activity had lower odds for excessive drinking OR = 0.12 [0.05; 0.31], p<0.001 than participants with low level physical activity. Amount of alcohol consumption in the intervention groups decreased by 4% [95% CI: 0.03; 6.8], p = 0.015 for each increased exercising day.CONCLUSIONS: No direct effect of physical exercise on drinking outcome was found. Moderate level physical activity was protective against excessive drinking following treatment. A dose-response effect of exercise on drinking outcome supports the need for implementing physically active lifestyles for patients in treatment for alcohol use disorder. labels: #Adult#Alcohol-Related Disorders#Denmark#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged"
b"PURPOSES: Restorative proctocolectomy (RPC) with ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA) is the procedure of choice for patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and ulcerative colitis (UC) despite morbidities that can lead to pouch failure. We aimed to identify factors associated with pouch-related morbidities.METHODS: A retrospective analysis of patients who underwent RPC with IPAA was performed. To investigate the factors associated with pouch-related morbidities, patients' preoperative demographic and clinical factors, and intraoperative factors were included in the analysis.RESULTS: A total of 49 patients with UC, FAP, and colorectal cancer were included. Twenty patients (40.8%) experienced leakage-related, functional, and/or pouchitis-related morbidities. Patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade 2 or 3 had a higher risk of functional morbidity than those with grade 1. Intraoperative blood loss exceeding 300.0 mL was associated with an increased risk of pouchitis-related morbidity.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated associations of higher ASA grade and increased intraoperative blood loss with poor functional outcomes and pouchitis, respectively. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Proctocolectomy, Restorative#Treatment Outcome"
b'The roots of land plants associate with microbes, including fungal symbionts that can confer abiotic stress tolerance. Bitumen extraction following oil-sand surface mining in the Athabasca region of Alberta, Canada removes plant nutrients but leaves a petrochemical residue, making the coarse tailings (CT) hostile to both plants and microbes. We isolated an endophyte strain of the Ascomycete Trichoderma harzianum we call TSTh20-1 (hereafter, TSTh) from a dandelion that was naturally growing on CT. TSTh colonization allowed tomato, wheat, and remediation seed mixtures to germinate and their seedlings to flourish on CT without the use of fertilizer. Compared to control plants, TSTh increased germination speed, percent germination, and biomass accumulation. TSTh also improved plant water use efficiency and drought recovery. TSTh-colonized plants secreted twice the level of peroxidase into CT as did plants alone. Over two months, plants colonized with TSTh doubled the petrochemical mobilization from CT over plants alone, suggesting a peroxide-mediated mechanism for petrochemical degradation. TSTh grew on autoclaved CT, bitumen, and other petrochemicals as sole carbon sources. Further, TSTh is a micro-aerobe that could metabolize 13C-phenanthrene to 13CO2 in 0.5% oxygen. TSTh has excellent potential for contributing to revegetating and remediating petrochemical contamination. labels: #Fungi#Plant Development#Soil#Symbiosis'
b'BACKGROUND: Monitoring cardiac output (CO) is important to optimize hemodynamic function in critically ill patients. The prevalence of aortic valve insufficiency (AI) is rising in the aging population. However, reliability of CO monitoring techniques in AI is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of AI on accuracy, precision, and trending ability of transcardiopulmonary thermodilution-derived COTCPTD in comparison with pulmonary artery catheter thermodilution COPAC.METHODS: Sixteen anesthetized domestic pigs were subjected to serial simultaneous measurements of COPAC and COTCPTD. In a novel experimental model, AI was induced by retraction of an expanded Dormia basket in the aortic valve annulus. The Dormia basket was delivered via a Judkins catheter guided by substernal epicardial echocardiography. High (HPC), moderate (MPC) and low cardiac preload conditions (LPC) were induced by fluid unloading (20 ml kg-1 blood withdrawal) and loading (subsequent retransfusion of the shed blood and additional infusion of 20 ml kg-1 hydroxyethyl starch). Within each preload condition CO was measured before and after the onset of AI. For statistical analysis, we used a mixed model analysis of variance, Bland-Altman analysis, the percentage error and concordance analysis.RESULTS: Experimental AI had a mean regurgitant volume of 33.6 \xc2\xb1 12.0 ml and regurgitant fraction of 42.9 \xc2\xb1 12.6%. The percentage error between COTCPTD and COPAC during competent valve function and after induction of substantial AI was: HPC 17.7% vs. 20.0%, MPC 20.5% vs. 26.1%, LPC 26.5% vs. 28.1% (pooled data: 22.5% vs. 24.1%). The ability to trend CO-changes induced by fluid loading and unloading did not differ between baseline and AI (concordance rate 95.8% during both conditions).CONCLUSION: Despite substantial AI, transcardiopulmonary thermodilution reliably measured CO under various cardiac preload conditions with a good ability to trend CO changes in a porcine model. COTCPTD and COPAC were interchangeable in substantial AI. labels: #Animals#Aortic Valve Insufficiency#Cardiac Output#Reproducibility of Results#Swine#Thermodilution'
b'BACKGROUND: Patients suffering from peritoneal carcinomatosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma were treated with Pressurized Intra Peritoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC), initial clinical findings are presented.METHODS: Single institution, tertiary referral center certified for therapy of peritoneal disease. Prospective data collection of PIPAC therapy with doxorubicin 1.5 mg/m2 and cisplatin 7.5 mg/m2 of body surface delivered at intervals of six weeks. The outcome criteria were microscopic pathological response, survival and adverse events (v4.0 CTCAE).RESULTS: A total of 20 patients (m/f = 3:1) with a mean age of 64.9 (range: 45.0 to 87.0) years underwent 41 PIPAC procedures without intraoperative complications. The mean number of PIPAC cycles was 2.1 (range: one to four). Ten patients with \xe2\x89\xa5 2 PIPAC applications were eligible for histological analysis to assess carcinoma regression. Complete or high grade tumor regression was found in two (10%) and five (25%) patients, respectively. An overall median survival of 36.6 weeks after the first PIPAC application was observed. One patient died postoperatively due to small bowel obstruction. No CTCAE level 3 and 4 complications occurred.CONCLUSION: In about one third of patients, repeated PIPAC therapy did induce histological regression of systemic chemo-resistant PC of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Prospective randomized trials are needed to further clarify any clinical impact of such observations. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aerosols#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Peritoneal Neoplasms'
b'Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a stress-activated transcription factor that induces a variety of cytoprotective genes. Nrf2 also mediates immunosuppressive effects in multiple inflammatory models. Upon activation, Nrf2 dissociates from its repressor protein, Keap1, and translocates to the nucleus where it induces Nrf2 target genes. The Nrf2-Keap1 interaction is disrupted by the environmental toxicant and chemotherapeutic agent arsenic trioxide (ATO). The purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of ATO on early events of T cell activation and the role of Nrf2 in those effects. The Nrf2 target genes Hmox-1, Nqo-1, and Gclc were all upregulated by ATO (1-2 \xce\xbcM) in splenocytes derived from wild-type, but not Nrf2-null, mice, suggesting that Nrf2 is activated by ATO in splenocytes. ATO also inhibited IFN\xce\xb3, IL-2, and GM-CSF mRNA and protein production in wild-type splenocytes activated with the T cell activator, anti-CD3/anti-CD28. However, ATO also decreased production of these cytokines in activated splenocytes from Nrf2-null mice, suggesting the inhibition is independent of Nrf2. Interestingly, ATO inhibited TNF\xce\xb1 protein secretion, but not mRNA expression, in activated splenocytes suggesting the inhibition is due to post-transcriptional modification. In addition, c-Fos DNA binding was significantly diminished by ATO in wild-type and Nrf2-null splenocytes activated with anti-CD3/anti-CD28, consistent with the observed inhibition of cytokine production by ATO. Collectively, this study suggests that although ATO activates Nrf2 in splenocytes, inhibition of early T cell cytokine production by ATO occurs independently of Nrf2 and may instead be due to impaired AP-1 DNA binding. labels: #Animals#Antigens, CD#Arsenicals#Cytokines#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#Oxides#Spleen#T-Lymphocytes'
b'A closer association has been found between the microRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism and the risk of head and neck carcinoma in some molecular epidemiological studies. Recently two meta-analyses were performed to explore the relationship between miRNA-146a polymorphisms and the susceptibility of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN); however, they yielded conflicting results in susceptibility regarding ethnic variations. Hence, the present study was performed to explain the relationship between the miRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism and the risk of SCCHN development of Chinese patients. We retrieved databases and screened eligible papers up to March 10, 2017 and then we extracted the essential data. The subgroup analyses were also performed based on the tumor site, region, and genotyping means. Crude odds ratios (OR) at 95% confidence intervals (CI) were chosen to describe the strength of the association. As a result, 6 publications were included in our study which involved 8 independent case-control studies. A significant association was found between miR-146a rs2910164 polymorphisms and the risk of SCCHN in Chinese patients according to the overall data [CC+CG vs. GG: OR = 1.13; 95%CI = 1.00-1.29; CC vs. GG: OR = 1.19; 95%CI = 1.03-1.38]. According to the subgroup analysis based on tumor site, the risk of cancer was significantly increased among laryngeal cancer (dominant model: OR = 1.76, 95%CI = 1.26~2.46, P = 0.001; homozygote model: OR = 1.83, 95%CI = 1.25~2.67, P = 0.002) and nasopharyngeal carcinoma (homozygote model: OR = 1.41, 95%CI = 1.05~1.90, P = 0.022). In summary, variant alleles of miR-146a rs2910164 alleles may have an association with the increased risk of SCCHN in Chinese patients, and these associations differed based on tumor site. Further studies including a larger sample size will be necessary to clarify these results. labels: #Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Case-Control Studies#China#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#MicroRNAs#Polymorphism, Genetic'
b'Microbial translocation is now viewed as a central event in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammation during HIV infection. Thymic function failure is another crucial factor involved in HIV disease progression. The goal of this study was to explore the hypothesis of potential links between microbial translocation and thymic function in HIV-1 patients living in Belgium. The extent of microbial translocation was assessed through the measurement of soluble CD14 (sCD14). T-cell receptor excision circles (sjTRECs and d\xce\xb2TRECs) were used as a measure of thymic function. Data were collected from 75 HIV-infected patients. Simple and complex linear regressions were done to analyze the link between these two processes. We found a statistically relevant negative correlation between thymopoiesis (sjTREC) and sCD14 level (p = 0.004). These results suggest a link between thymic function failure, microbial translocation and innate immune activation. labels: #Belgium#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Lipopolysaccharide Receptors#Male#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Thymus Gland'
b'AtlA is the major peptidoglycan hydrolase of Enterococcus faecalis involved in cell division and cellular autolysis. The secreted zinc metalloprotease, gelatinase (GelE), has been identified as an important regulator of cellular function through post-translational modification of protein substrates. AtlA is a known target of GelE, and their interplay has been proposed to regulate AtlA function. To study the protease-mediated post-translational modification of AtlA, monoclonal antibodies were developed as research tools. Flow cytometry and Western blot analysis suggests that in the presence of GelE, surface-bound AtlA exists primarily as a N-terminally truncated form whereas in the absence of GelE, the N-terminal domain of AtlA is retained. We identified the primary GelE cleavage site occurring near the transition between the T/E rich Domain I and catalytic region, Domain II via N-terminal sequencing. Truncation of AtlA had no effect on the peptidoglycan hydrolysis activity of AtlA. However, we observed that N-terminal cleavage was required for efficient AtlA-mediated cell division while unprocessed AtlA was unable to resolve dividing cells into individual units. Furthermore, we observed that the processed AtlA has the propensity to localize to the cell septum on wild-type cells whereas unprocessed AtlA in the \xce\x94gelE strain were dispersed over the cell surface. Combined, these results suggest that AtlA septum localization and subsequent cell separation can be modulated by a single GelE-mediated N-terminal cleavage event, providing new insights into the post-translation modification of AtlA and the mechanisms governing chaining and cell separation. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Blotting, Western#Cell Separation#Enterococcus faecalis#Flow Cytometry#Metalloproteases#Zinc'
b'To assess potential physical interactions of type I phyA with the type II phyB-phyE phytochromes in vivo, transgenes expressing fusion gene forms of phyA were introduced into the Arabidopsis phyA mutant background. When a single c-Myc (myc) epitope is added to either the N- or C-terminus of phyA, the constructs completely complement phyA mutant phenotypes. However, addition of larger tags, such as six consecutive myc epitopes or the yellow fluorescent protein sequence, result in fusion proteins that show reduced activity. All the tagged phyA proteins migrate as dimers on native gels and co-immunoprecipitation reveals no binding interaction of phyA to any of the type II phys in the dark or under continuous far-red light. Dimers of the phyA 1-615 amino acid N-terminal photosensory domain (NphyA), generated in vivo with a yeast GAL4 dimerization domain and attached to a constitutive nuclear localization sequence, are expressed at a low level and, although they cause a cop phenotype in darkness and mediate a very low fluence response to pulses of FR, have no activity under continuous FR. It is concluded that type I phyA in its Pr form is present in plants predominantly or exclusively as a homodimer and does not stably interact with type II phys in a dimer-to-dimer manner. In addition, its activity in mediating response to continuous FR is sensitive to modification of its N- or C-terminus. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Dimerization#Phytochrome A#Transgenes'
b'We have applied correlative microscopy to identify the key constituents of a dorsal rib fossil from Koreanosaurus boseongensis and its hosting mudstone discovered at the rich fossil site in Boseong, South Korea, to investigate the factors that likely contributed to diagenesis and the preservation of fossil bone. Calcite and illite were the commonly occurring phases in the rib bone, hosting mudstone, and the boundary region in-between. The boundary region may have contributed to bone preservation once it fully formed by acting as a protective shell. Fluorapatite crystals in the rib bone matrix signified diagenetic alteration of the original bioapatite crystals. While calcite predominantly occupied vascular channels and cracks, platy illite crystals widely occupied miniscule pores throughout the bone matrix. Thorough transmission electron microscopy (TEM) study of illite within the bone matrix indicated the solid-state transformation of 1M to 2M without composition change, which was more evident from the lateral variation of 1M to 2M within the same layer. The high level of lattice disordering of 2M illite suggested an early stage of 1M to 2M transformation. Thus, the diagenetic alteration of both apatite and illite crystals within the bone matrix may have increased its overall density, as the preferred orientation of apatite crystals from moderate to strong degrees was evident despite the poor preservation of osteohistological features. The combined effects of rapid burial, formation of a boundary region, and diagenesis of illite and apatite within the bone matrix may have contributed to the rib bone preservation. labels: #Animals#Bone and Bones#Dinosaurs#Fossils#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'This study evaluated the chronic effects of fluoxetine, a commonly prescribed SSRI antidepressant, on the peripheral and central levels of inflammatory cytokines including IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-17 over a 4-interval in a rat model of chronic mild stress (CMS) which resembles the human experience of depression. Twenty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to CMS+vehicle (n = 9), CMS+fluoxetine (n = 9) and the control (n = 6) groups. Sucrose preference and forced swim tests were performed to assess behavioral change. Blood samples were collected on day 0, 60, 90 and 120 for measurement of cytokine levels in plasma. On day 120, the brain was harvested and central level of cytokines was tested using Luminex. Four months of fluoxetine treatment resulted in changes in the sucrose preference and immobility time measurements, commensurate with antidepressant effects. The CMS+vehicle group exhibited elevated plasma levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-17, and TNF-\xce\xb1 on day 60 or 120. Rats treated with fluoxetine demonstrated lower IL-1\xce\xb2 in plasma and brain after 90 and 120-day treatment respectively (p<0.05). There was a trend of reduction of IL-6 and TNF-\xce\xb1 concentration. This study revealed the potential therapeutic effects of fluoxetine by reducing central and peripheral levels of IL-1\xce\xb2 in the alleviation of depressive symptoms. labels: #Animals#Brain#Cytokines#Depression#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Fluoxetine#Inflammation Mediators#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Serotonin Uptake Inhibitors#Swimming'
b'The effects of Chinese pine (Pinus tabuliformis) on soil variables after afforestation have been established, but microbial community changes still need to be explored. Using high-throughput sequencing technology, we analyzed bacterial and fungal community composition and diversity in soils from three stands of different-aged, designated 12-year-old (PF1), 29-year-old (PF2), and 53-year-old (PF3), on a Chinese pine plantation and from a natural secondary forest (NSF) stand that was almost 80 years old. Abandoned farmland (BL) was also analyzed. Shannon index values of both bacterial and fungal community in PF1 were greater than those in PF2, PF3 and NSF. Proteobacteria had the lowest abundance in BL, and the abundance increased with stand age. The abundance of Actinobacteria was greater in BL and PF1 soils than those in other sites. Among fungal communities, the dominant taxa were Ascomycota in BL and PF1 and Basidiomycota in PF2, PF3 and NSF, which reflected the successional patterns of fungal communities during the development of Chinese pine plantations. Therefore, the diversity and dominant taxa of soil microbial community in stands 12 and 29 years of age appear to have undergone significant changes; afterward, the soil microbial community achieved a relatively stable state. Furthermore, the abundances of the most dominant bacterial and fungal communities correlated significantly with organic C, total N, C:N, available N, and available P, indicating the dependence of these microbes on soil nutrients. Overall, our findings suggest that the large changes in the soil microbial community structure of Chinese pine plantation forests may be attributed to the phyla present (e.g., Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Ascomycota and Basidiomycota) which were affected by soil carbon and nutrients in the Loess Plateau. labels: #Bacteria#China#Fungi#Pinus#Soil#Soil Microbiology'
b'Corynebacterium diphtheriae (Cd) is a Gram-positive human pathogen responsible for diphtheria infection and once regarded for high mortalities worldwide. The fatality gradually decreased with improved living standards and further alleviated when many immunization programs were introduced. However, numerous drug-resistant strains emerged recently that consequently decreased the efficacy of current therapeutics and vaccines, thereby obliging the scientific community to start investigating new therapeutic targets in pathogenic microorganisms. In this study, our contributions include the prediction of modelome of 13 C. diphtheriae strains, using the MHOLline workflow. A set of 463 conserved proteins were identified by combining the results of pangenomics based core-genome and core-modelome analyses. Further, using subtractive proteomics and modelomics approaches for target identification, a set of 23 proteins was selected as essential for the bacteria. Considering human as a host, eight of these proteins (glpX, nusB, rpsH, hisE, smpB, bioB, DIP1084, and DIP0983) were considered as essential and non-host homologs, and have been subjected to virtual screening using four different compound libraries (extracted from the ZINC database, plant-derived natural compounds and Di-terpenoid Iso-steviol derivatives). The proposed ligand molecules showed favorable interactions, lowered energy values and high complementarity with the predicted targets. Our proposed approach expedites the selection of C. diphtheriae putative proteins for broad-spectrum development of novel drugs and vaccines, owing to the fact that some of these targets have already been identified and validated in other organisms. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacterial Proteins#Bacterial Vaccines#Computer Simulation#Corynebacterium diphtheriae#Genome, Bacterial#Humans#Ligands#Models, Biological#Molecular Docking Simulation'
b'INTRODUCTION: Exposure to prenatal inflammation is associated with diverse adverse neurobehavioral outcomes in exposed offspring. The mechanism by which inflammation negatively impacts the developing brain is poorly understood. Metabolomic profiling provides an opportunity to identify specific metabolites, and novel pathways, which may reveal mechanisms by which exposure to intrauterine inflammation promotes fetal and neonatal brain injury. Therefore, we investigated whether exposure to intrauterine inflammation altered the metabolome of the amniotic fluid, fetal and neonatal brain. Additionally, we explored whether changes in the metabolomic profile from exposure to prenatal inflammation occurs in a sex-specific manner in the neonatal brain.METHODS: CD-1, timed pregnant mice received an intrauterine injection of lipopolysaccharide (50 \xce\xbcg/dam) or saline on embryonic day 15. Six and 48 hours later mice were sacrificed and amniotic fluid, and fetal brains were collected (n = 8/group). Postnatal brains were collected on day of life 1 (n = 6/group/sex). Global biochemical profiles were determined using ultra performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (Metabolon Inc.). Statistical analyses were performed by comparing samples from lipopolysaccharide and saline treated animals at each time point. For the P1 brains, analyses were stratified by sex.RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to intrauterine inflammation induced unique, temporally regulated changes in the metabolic profiles of amniotic fluid, fetal brain and postnatal brain. Six hours after exposure to intrauterine inflammation, the amniotic fluid and the fetal brain metabolomes were dramatically altered with significant enhancements of amino acid and purine metabolites. The amniotic fluid had enhanced levels of several members of the (hypo) xanthine pathway and this compound was validated as a potential biomarker. By 48 hours, the number of altered biochemicals in both the fetal brain and the amniotic fluid had declined, yet unique profiles existed. Neonatal pups exposed to intrauterine inflammation have significant alterations in their lipid metabolites, in particular, fatty acids. These sex-specific metabolic changes within the newborn brain offer an explanation regarding the sexual dimorphism of certain psychiatric and neurobehavioral disorders associated with exposure to prenatal inflammation. labels: #Amniotic Fluid#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Brain#Female#Inflammation#Metabolomics#Mice#Pregnancy#Uterus'
b'BACKGROUND & AIMS: The impact of marijuana on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is largely unknown. We studied the association between marijuana and NAFLD utilizing cross-sectional data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 2005-2014 and NHANES III (1988-1994).METHODS: Suspected NAFLD was diagnosed if serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was>30 IU/L for men and>19 IU/L for women in the absence of other liver diseases (NHANES 2005-2014). In NHANES III cohort, NAFLD was defined based on ultrasonography.RESULTS: Of the 14,080 (NHANES 2005-2014) and 8,286 (NHANES III) participants, prevalence of suspected NAFLD and ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD were inversely associated with marijuana use (p<0.001). Compared to marijuana-na\xc3\xafve participants, marijuana users were less likely to have suspected NAFLD (odds ratio [OR]: 0.90, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.82-0.99 for past user; OR: 0.68, 95% CI: 0.58-0.80 for current user) and ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD (OR: 0.75, 95% CI: 0.57-0.98 for current user) in the age, gender, ethnicity-adjusted model. On multivariate analysis, the ORs for suspected NAFLD comparing current light or heavy users to non-users were 0.76 (95% CI 0.58-0.98) and 0.70 (95% CI 0.56-0.89), respectively (P for trend = 0.001) with similar trends in ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD (OR: 0.77, 95% CI: 0.59-1.00 for current user; OR: 0.71, 95% CI: 0.51-0.97 for current light user). In insulin resistance-adjusted model, marijuana use remained an independent predictor of lower risk of suspected NAFLD.CONCLUSIONS: In this nationally representative sample, active marijuana use provided a protective effect against NAFLD independent of known metabolic risk factors. The pathophysiology is unclear and warrants further investigation. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Marijuana Smoking#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Ultrasonography#United States'
b'Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a poorly understood multifactorial pandemic disorder. One of the hallmarks of NAFLD, hepatic steatosis, is a common feature in canine congenital portosystemic shunts. The aim of this study was to gain detailed insight into the pathogenesis of steatosis in this large animal model. Hepatic lipid accumulation, gene-expression analysis and HPLC-MS of neutral lipids and phospholipids in extrahepatic (EHPSS) and intrahepatic portosystemic shunts (IHPSS) was compared to healthy control dogs. Liver organoids of diseased dogs and healthy control dogs were incubated with palmitic- and oleic-acid, and lipid accumulation was quantified using LD540. In histological slides of shunt livers, a 12-fold increase of lipid content was detected compared to the control dogs (EHPSS P<0.01; IHPSS P = 0.042). Involvement of lipid-related genes to steatosis in portosystemic shunting was corroborated using gene-expression profiling. Lipid analysis demonstrated different triglyceride composition and a shift towards short chain and omega-3 fatty acids in shunt versus healthy dogs, with no difference in lipid species composition between shunt types. All organoids showed a similar increase in triacylglycerols after free fatty acids enrichment. This study demonstrates that steatosis is probably secondary to canine portosystemic shunts. Unravelling the pathogenesis of this hepatic steatosis might contribute to a better understanding of steatosis in NAFLD. labels: #Animals#Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Dogs#Lipid Metabolism#Liver#Mass Spectrometry#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Portasystemic Shunt, Surgical'
b'BACKGROUND: Treatment satisfaction in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) may impact adherence and thus clinical outcomes. The objective of this study was to measure the satisfaction of patients with RRMS with injectable disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) and to evaluate the factors associated with treatment satisfaction.MATERIAL AND METHODS: In this observational retrospective study conducted in the neurology departments of 35 hospitals throughout Spain, demographic data, disease characteristics, and information on treatment with injectable DMTs were collected at a single scheduled visit. Treatment satisfaction was assessed using the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM), version 1.4. Patients also answered complementary questions about the factors that might affect treatment satisfaction. The data collected were analyzed descriptively. A regression model was used to explore the factors associated with treatment satisfaction.RESULTS: The study included 445 patients (mean\xc2\xb1SD age, 41\xc2\xb110.2 years; two-thirds women). The percentages treated with each DMT were Avonex 28.5%, Rebif 44 \xce\xbcg 24.5%, Copaxone 22.5%, Betaferon 13.0%, Rebif22 \xce\xbcg 8.3% and Extavia 3.1%. The mean\xc2\xb1SD overall satisfaction according to the TSQM was 68.8\xc2\xb118.6 and the highest overall satisfaction was reported for Rebif 22 \xce\xbcg (72.4\xc2\xb120.3) and the lowest for Extavia (61.7\xc2\xb123.7). In the regression analysis, rehabilitation, interference with social life, pain on injection and number of MS treatments received were significantly associated with a decrease in overall TSMQ score. A small but significant negative correlation was found between EDSS scores and TSMQ scores (rho = -0.11, p = 0.02) and effectiveness (rho = -0.17, p<0.001). A perceived inconvenience of injections was reflected by the stated preference of 83% for once-daily oral treatment over other administration routes.CONCLUSIONS: Patients on stable injectable DMT therapy were reasonably satisfied with their treatment. Our results suggest that the main source of dissatisfaction with the current treatment is the inconvenience of the administration regimen. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting#Patient Satisfaction'
b'INTRODUCTION: In donor health research, the \'Healthy Donor Effect\' (HDE) often biases study results and hampers their interpretation. This refers to the fact that donors are a selected \'healthier\' subset of a population due to both donor selection procedures and self-selection. Donors with long versus short donor careers, or with high versus low donation intensities are often compared to avoid this HDE, but underlying health differences might also cause these differences in behaviour. Our aim was to estimate to what extent a donor\xc2\xb4s perceived health status associates with donation cessation and intensity.METHODS: All active whole blood donors participating in Donor InSight (2007-2009; 11,107 male; 12,616 female) were included in this prospective cohort study. We performed Cox survival and Poisson regression analyses to assess whether self-reported health status, medication use, disease diagnosed by a physician and recently having consulted a general practitioner (GP) or specialist were associated with (time to) donation cessation and donation intensity.RESULTS: At the end of 2013, 44% of the donors in this study had stopped donating. Donors in self-rated good health had a 15% lower risk to stop donating compared to donors in perceived poorer health. Medication use, disease diagnoses and consulting a GP were associated with a 20-40% increased risk to stop donating and a lower donation intensity, when adjusting for age, number of donations and new donor status. Both men and women reporting good health made on average 10% more donations.CONCLUSION: Donors with a "good" health status were less likely to stop donating blood and tended to donate blood more often than donors with perceived poorer health status. This implies that the HDE is an important source of selection bias in studies on donor health and this includes studies where comparisons within donors are made. This HDE should be adjusted for appropriately when assessing health effects of donation and donors\' health status may provide estimates of future donation behavior. labels: #Adult#Blood Donors#Female#Health Status#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies'
b'We investigate the extent to which minority group members are surrounded by outgroup members in their immediate environment as a predictor of social dominance orientation. Using a large representative sample of New Zealanders, we found that minority group members in outgroup dense environments reported lower levels of social dominance orientation (Study 1). In studies 2 and 3, Asian Australian and Black American participants who were surrounded by outgroup members reported lower social dominance orientation. For majority group (White) participants there was no association between social dominance orientation and outgroup density. Study 4 explained the overall pattern: Black Americans surrounded by outgroup members perceived their group to be of lower status in their immediate environment, and through this, reported lower social dominance orientation. This article adds to growing literature on contextual factors that predict social dominance orientation, especially among minority group members. labels: #Continental Population Groups#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#New Zealand#Social Dominance'
b'Gut microbiota facilitate many aspects of human health and development, but dysbiotic microbiota can promote hyperplasia and inflammation and contribute to human diseases such as cancer. Human patients infected with the gastric cancer-causing bacterium Helicobacter pylori have altered microbiota; however, whether dysbiosis contributes to disease in this case is unknown. Many H. pylori human disease phenotypes are associated with a potent virulence protein, CagA, which is translocated into host epithelial cells where it alters cell polarity and manipulates host-signaling pathways to promote disease. We hypothesized that CagA alone could contribute to H. pylori pathogenesis by inducing microbial dysbiosis that promotes disease. Here we use a transgenic Drosophila model of CagA expression to genetically disentangle the effects of the virulence protein CagA from that of H. pylori infection. We found that expression of CagA within Drosophila intestinal stem cells promotes excess cell proliferation and is sufficient to alter host microbiota. Rearing CagA transgenic flies germ-free revealed that the dysbiotic microbiota contributes to cell proliferation phenotypes and also elicits expression of innate immune components, Diptericin and Duox. Further investigations revealed interspecies interactions are required for this dysbiotic CagA-dependent microbiota to promote proliferation in CagA transgenic and healthy control Drosophila. Our model establishes that CagA can alter gut microbiota and exacerbate cell proliferation and immune phenotypes previously attributed to H. pylori infection. This work provides valuable new insights into the mechanisms by which interactions between a specific virulence factor and the resident microbiota can contribute to the development and progression of disease. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Antigens, Bacterial#Bacterial Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Drosophila melanogaster#Epithelial Cells#Female#Helicobacter pylori#Inflammation#Intestines'
b'A priority for biomedical research is to understand the causes of variation in susceptibility to infection. To investigate genetic variation in a model system, we used flies collected from single populations of three different species of Drosophila and artificially selected them for resistance to the parasitoid wasp Leptopilina boulardi, and found that survival rates increased 3 to 30 fold within 6 generations. Resistance in all three species involves a large increase in the number of the circulating hemocytes that kill parasitoids. However, the different species achieve this in different ways, with D. melanogaster moving sessile hemocytes into circulation while the other species simply produce more cells. Therefore, the convergent evolution of the immune phenotype has different developmental bases. These changes are costly, as resistant populations of all three species had greatly reduced larval survival. In all three species resistance is only costly when food is in short supply, and resistance was rapidly lost from D. melanogaster populations when food is restricted. Furthermore, evolving resistance to L. boulardi resulted in cross-resistance against other parasitoids. Therefore, whether a population evolves resistance will depend on ecological conditions including food availability and the presence of different parasite species. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Disease Resistance#Drosophila#Immunity, Cellular#Species Specificity#Wasps'
b'Domain I (DI) of beta-2-glycoprotein I (\xce\xb22GPI) contains the immunodominant epitope for pathogenic antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). DI is exposed in the linear form of the molecule but not in the circular form that comprises 90% of serum \xce\xb22GPI. The majority of circulating \xce\xb22GPI is biochemically reduced with two free thiols in Domain V. However, increased levels of oxidised \xce\xb22GPI are found in patients with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). It is not known whether oxidation of \xce\xb22GPI favours the linear form of the molecule and thus promotes development of anti-DI antibodies. We investigated whether the proportion of oxidised \xce\xb22GPI associates with the presence of anti-DI in APS patients. Serum samples from 44 APS patients were screened for IgG, IgM and IgA anti-DI, anti-\xce\xb22GPI, anti-cardiolipin (anti-CL) and biochemically reduced \xce\xb22GPI. A negative correlation was found between the proportion of \xce\xb22GPI in the biochemically reduced form and IgG anti-DI levels (r = -0.54, p = 0.0002), but not with IgM or IgA anti-DI. Moreover, the proportion of \xce\xb22GPI in the reduced form was lower in IgG anti-DI positive than anti-DI negative APS patients (p = 0.02). The relative amount of reduced \xce\xb22GPI was no different between patients who were positive or negative for IgG, IgM and IgA anti-\xce\xb22GPI or anti-CL. This study demonstrates that oxidised \xce\xb22GPI lacking free cysteine-thiol groups most closely associates with IgG anti-DI positivity compared to IgG anti-CL and anti-\xce\xb22GPI. Future studies are required to ascertain the directionality of this association to define causation. labels: #Adult#Antiphospholipid Syndrome#Autoantibodies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidation-Reduction#beta 2-Glycoprotein I'
b'Severe hepatic inflammation is a common cause of acute liver injury following systemic infection with Ehrlichia, obligate Gram-negative intracellular bacteria that lack lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We have previously shown that type I IFN (IFN-I) and inflammasome activation are key host-pathogenic mediators that promote excessive inflammation and liver damage following fatal Ehrlichia infection. However, the underlying signals and mechanisms that regulate protective immunity and immunopathology during Ehrlichia infection are not well understood. To address this issue, we compared susceptibility to lethal Ixodes ovatus Ehrlichia (IOE) infection between wild type (WT) and MyD88-deficient (MyD88-/-) mice. We show here that MyD88-/- mice exhibited decreased inflammasome activation, attenuated liver injury, and were more resistant to lethal infection than WT mice, despite suppressed protective immunity and increased bacterial burden in the liver. MyD88-dependent inflammasome activation was also dependent on activation of the metabolic checkpoint kinase mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), inhibition of autophagic flux, and defective mitophagy in macrophages. Blocking mTORC1 signaling in infected WT mice and primary macrophages enhanced bacterial replication and attenuated inflammasome activation, suggesting autophagy promotes bacterial replication while inhibiting inflammasome activation. Finally, our data suggest TLR9 and IFN-I are upstream signaling mechanisms triggering MyD88-mediated mTORC1 and inflammasome activation in macrophages following Ehrlichia infection. This study reveals that Ehrlichia-induced liver injury and toxic shock are mediated by MyD88-dependent inflammasome activation and autophagy inhibition. labels: #Animals#Autophagy#Blotting, Western#Disease Models, Animal#Ehrlichia#Ehrlichiosis#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#In Situ Nick-End Labeling#Inflammasomes#Liver Failure, Acute#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Shock, Septic'
b'Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer is a herb used for medicinal purposes, and its discrimination according to cultivation age has been an important and practical issue. This study employed Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy with multivariate statistical analysis to obtain a prediction model for discriminating cultivation ages (5 and 6 years) and three different parts (rhizome, tap root, and lateral root) of P. ginseng. The optimal partial-least-squares regression (PLSR) models for discriminating ginseng samples were determined by selecting normalization methods, number of partial-least-squares (PLS) components, and variable influence on projection (VIP) cutoff values. The best prediction model for discriminating 5- and 6-year-old ginseng was developed using tap root, vector normalization applied after the second differentiation, one PLS component, and a VIP cutoff of 1.0 (based on the lowest root-mean-square error of prediction value). In addition, for discriminating among the three parts of P. ginseng, optimized PLSR models were established using data sets obtained from vector normalization, two PLS components, and VIP cutoff values of 1.5 (for 5-year-old ginseng) and 1.3 (for 6-year-old ginseng). To our knowledge, this is the first study to provide a novel strategy for rapidly discriminating the cultivation ages and parts of P. ginseng using FT-IR by selected normalization methods, number of PLS components, and VIP cutoff values. labels: #Multivariate Analysis#Panax#Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared'
b'Gut microbiota play an important role in human immunological processes, potentially affecting allergic diseases such as eczema. The diversity and structure of gut microbiota in infants with eczema have been previously documented. This study aims to evaluate by comparative metagenomics differences in genetic content in gut microbiota of infants with eczema and their matched controls. Stools were collected at the age of one month old from twelve infants from an at risk birth cohort in a case control manner. Clinical follow up for atopic outcomes were carried out at the age of 12 and 24 months. Microbial genomic DNA were extracted from stool samples and used for shotgun sequencing. Comparative metagenomic analysis showed that immune-regulatory TCAAGCTTGA motifs were significantly enriched in the six healthy controls (C) communities compared to the six eczema subjects (E), with many encoded by Bifidobacterium (38% of the total motifs in the C communities). Draft genomes of five Bifidobacterium species populations (B. longum, B. bifidum, B. breve, B. dentium, and B. pseudocatenulatum) were recovered from metagenomic datasets. The B. longum BFN-121-2 genome encoded more TCAAGCTTGA motifs (4.2 copies per one million genome sequence) than other Bifidobacterium genomes. Additionally, the communities in the stool of controls (C) were also significantly enriched in functions associated with tetrapyrrole biosynthesis compared to those of eczema (E). Our results show distinct immune-modulatory genomic properties of gut microbiota in infants associated with eczema and provide new insights into potential role of gut microbiota in affecting human immune homeostasis. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Eczema#Female#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Humans#Infant#Male#Phylogeny#Placebos'
b'OBJECTIVES: To test whether shade sails will increase the use of passive recreation areas (PRAs).METHODS: We conducted a stratified randomized pretest-posttest controlled design study in Melbourne, Australia, and Denver, Colorado, in 2010 to 2014. We randomized a sample of 144 public parks with 2 PRAs in full sun in a 1:3 ratio to treatment or control. Shade sails were built at 1 PRA per treatment park. The outcome was any use of the study PRA (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89576 pretest and n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89576 posttest observations; 100% follow-up).RESULTS: Compared with control PRAs (adjusted probability of use: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.14, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.17), use of treatment PRAs (pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.10, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.32) was higher at posttest (odds ratio [OR]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.91; 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.71, 8.94). Shade increased use of PRAs in Denver (control: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.18, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.19; treatment: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.16, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.47) more than Melbourne (control: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.11, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.14; shaded: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.06, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.19; OR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.98; 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.09, 8.14).CONCLUSIONS: Public investment in shade is warranted for skin cancer prevention and may be especially useful in the United States.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT02971709. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Australia#City Planning#Colorado#Environment Design#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Parks, Recreational#Prospective Studies#Skin Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b'OBJECTIVES: To evaluate a community-level sodium-reduction intervention in Boston, Massachusetts. Reducing sodium in the food offerings of community settings may help reduce hypertension disparities.METHODS: We examined changes in the proportion of prepackaged foods with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium in 7 hospitals, 8 YMCAs, 4 community health centers, and 2 organizations serving homeless populations. Research assistants documented prepackaged items in cafeterias, kiosks, and vending machines before and after the intervention (2013-2015). We assessed intervention change via linear mixed models accounting for repeated observations.RESULTS: There were 161 access points at baseline (4347 facings) and 171 (4996 facings) at follow-up. The percentage of prepackaged products with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium decreased from 29.0% at baseline to 21.5% at follow-up (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.003). Changes were driven by improvements in hospital cafeterias and kiosks (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.003). The percentage of products with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium in YMCA vending decreased 58% (from 27.2% to 11.5%; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.017); other organizations had nonsignificant declines.CONCLUSIONS: We found modest reductions in the percentage of higher-sodium prepackaged products across community institutions. Community-level interventions may increase availability of lower-sodium products in the food supply. labels: #Boston#Community Health Centers#Food#Food Dispensers, Automatic#Food Service, Hospital#Health Promotion#Hospitals#Humans#Hypertension#Snacks#Sodium, Dietary'
b'OBJECTIVES: To deploy a methodology accurately identifying tweets marketing the illegal online sale of controlled substances.METHODS: We first collected tweets from the Twitter public application program interface stream filtered for prescription opioid keywords. We then used unsupervised machine learning (specifically, topic modeling) to identify topics associated with illegal online marketing and sales. Finally, we conducted Web forensic analyses to characterize different types of online vendors. We analyzed 619\xe2\x80\x89937 tweets containing the keywords codeine, Percocet, fentanyl, Vicodin, Oxycontin, oxycodone, and hydrocodone over a 5-month period from June to November 2015.RESULTS: A total of 1778 tweets (<\xe2\x80\x891%) were identified as marketing the sale of controlled substances online; 90% had imbedded hyperlinks, but only 46 were "live" at the time of the evaluation. Seven distinct URLs linked to Web sites marketing or illegally selling controlled substances online.CONCLUSIONS: Our methodology can identify illegal online sale of prescription opioids from large volumes of tweets. Our results indicate that controlled substances are trafficked online via different strategies and vendors. Public Health Implications. Our methodology can be used to identify illegal online sellers in criminal violation of the Ryan Haight Online Pharmacy Consumer Protection Act. labels: #Analgesics, Opioid#Crime#Humans#Marketing#Pharmaceutical Services, Online#Prescription Drug Misuse#Public Health#Social Media#Unsupervised Machine Learning'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess how integration of HIV surveillance and field services might influence surveillance data and linkage to care metrics.METHODS: We used HIV surveillance and field services data from King County, Washington, to assess potential impact of misclassification of prior diagnoses on numbers of new diagnoses. The relationship between partner services and linkage to care was evaluated with multivariable log-binomial regression models.RESULTS: Of the 2842 people who entered the King County HIV Surveillance System in 2010 to 2015, 52% were newly diagnosed, 41% had a confirmed prior diagnosis in another state, and 7% had an unconfirmed prior diagnosis. Twelve percent of those classified as newly diagnosed for purposes of national HIV surveillance self-reported a prior HIV diagnosis that was unconfirmed. Partner services recipients were more likely than nonrecipients to link to care within 30 days (adjusted risk ratio [RR]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.10; 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.03, 1.18) and 90 days (adjusted RR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.07; 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.01, 1.14) of diagnosis.CONCLUSIONS: Integration of HIV surveillance, partner services, and care linkage efforts may improve the accuracy of HIV surveillance data and facilitate timely linkage to care. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Community Health Services#Data Collection#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Population Surveillance#Regression Analysis#Self Report#Washington#Young Adult'
b"In the United States, groups advocating for and against abortion rights often deploy public health arguments to advance their positions. Recently, these arguments have evolved into state laws that use the government health department infrastructure to increase law enforcement and regulatory activities around abortion. Many major medical and public health associations oppose these new laws because they are not evidence-based and do not protect women's health. Yet state health departments have been defending these laws in court. We propose a 21st-century public health approach to abortion based in an accepted public health framework. Specifically, we apply the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's 10 Essential Public Health Services framework to abortion to describe how health departments should engage with abortion. With this public health framework as our guide, we argue that health departments should be facilitating women's ability to obtain an abortion in the state and county where they reside, researching barriers to abortion care in their states and counties, and promoting the use of a scientific evidence base in abortion-related laws, policies, regulations, and implementation of essential services. labels: #Abortion, Legal#Female#Health Policy#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Pregnancy#Public Health Practice#State Government#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To examine the relation of "shall-issue" laws, in which permits must be issued if requisite criteria are met; "may-issue" laws, which give law enforcement officials wide discretion over whether to issue concealed firearm carry permits or not; and homicide rates.METHODS: We compared homicide rates in shall-issue and may-issue states and total, firearm, nonfirearm, handgun, and long-gun homicide rates in all 50 states during the 25-year period of 1991 to 2015. We included year and state fixed effects and numerous state-level factors in the analysis.RESULTS: Shall-issue laws were significantly associated with 6.5% higher total homicide rates, 8.6% higher firearm homicide rates, and 10.6% higher handgun homicide rates, but were not significantly associated with long-gun or nonfirearm homicide.CONCLUSIONS: Shall-issue laws are associated with significantly higher rates of total, firearm-related, and handgun-related homicide. labels: #Age Distribution#Firearms#Homicide#Humans#United States#Wounds, Gunshot'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of Short Message Service (SMS) reminder messages on antiretroviral and cotrimoxazole prophylaxis adherence among HIV-positive youths as well as the relative effectiveness of SMS with and without a response option.METHODS: Eligible HIV-positive patients aged 15 to 22 years at 2 HIV clinics in Kampala, Uganda, participated in a year-long parallel individual-randomized controlled trial and were assigned in a 1-to-1-to-1 ratio to a weekly SMS message group, weekly SMS message with response option group, or a usual-care control group.RESULTS: We enrolled 332 participants. Electronically measured mean adherence was 67% in the control group, 64% in the 1-way SMS group (95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.77, 1.14), and 61% in the 2-way SMS group (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.75, 1.12) in an intent-to-treat analysis. Results for secondary outcomes and complete-case analysis were similarly statistically insignificant across groups.CONCLUSIONS: Despite previous evidence that interventions using SMS reminders can promote antiretroviral therapy adherence, this study shows that they are not always effective in achieving behavior change. More research is needed to find out for whom, and under what conditions, they can be beneficial.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00830622. labels: #AIDS-Related Opportunistic Infections#Adolescent#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-HIV Agents#Female#HIV Seropositivity#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Male#Medication Adherence#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Reminder Systems#Text Messaging#Trimethoprim, Sulfamethoxazole Drug Combination#Uganda#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVES: To examine the trends of new and recurrent sports-related concussions in high-school athletes before and after youth sports traumatic brain injury laws.METHODS: We used an interrupted time-series design and analyzed the concussion data (2005-2016) from High School Reporting Injury Online. We examined the trends of new or recurrent concussion rates among US representative high-school athletes participating in 9 sports across prelaw, immediate-postlaw, and postlaw periods by using general linear models. We defined 1 athlete exposure as attending 1 competition or practice.RESULTS: We included a total of 8043 reported concussions (88.7% new, 11.3% recurrent). The average annual concussion rate was 39.8 per 100\xe2\x80\x89000 athlete exposures. We observed significantly increased trends of reported new and recurrent concussions from the prelaw, through immediate-postlaw, into the postlaw period. However, the recurrent concussion rate showed a significant decline 2.6 years after the laws went into effect. Football exhibited different trends compared with other boys' sports and girls' sports.CONCLUSIONS: Observed trends of increased concussion rates are likely attributable to increased identification and reporting. Additional research is needed to evaluate intended long-term impact of traumatic brain injury laws. labels: #Adolescent#Athletic Injuries#Brain Concussion#Female#Humans#Male#Recurrence#Sex Distribution#Sports#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness of a universal school-based depression education program.METHODS: In 2012-2015, we matched 6679 students from 66 secondary schools into pairs by state (Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Oklahoma) and randomized to the Adolescent Depression Awareness Program (ADAP; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893681) or to a waitlist control condition (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892998). Trained teachers delivered ADAP as part of the health education curriculum to students aged 14 to 15 years. The primary outcome was depression literacy. Secondary outcomes included mental health stigma and, in a subset of the sample, the receipt of mental health services. Follow-up was at 4 months.RESULTS: ADAP resulted in significantly higher levels of depression literacy among participating students than did waitlist controls, after adjusting for pretest assessment depression literacy (P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Overall, ADAP did not significantly affect stigma (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.1). After ADAP, students approached 46% of teachers with concerns about themselves or others. Of students who reported the need for depression treatment, 44% received treatment within 4 months of ADAP implementation.CONCLUSIONS: ADAP is an effective public health intervention for improving depression literacy among students.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02099305. labels: #Adolescent#Curriculum#Depressive Disorder#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Health Literacy#Humans#School Health Services#Social Stigma#Surveys and Questionnaires#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the prevalence of abortion among population groups and changes in rates between 2008 and 2014.METHODS: We used secondary data from the Abortion Patient Survey, the American Community Survey, and the National Survey of Family Growth to estimate abortion rates. We used information from the Abortion Patient Survey to estimate the lifetime incidence of abortion.RESULTS: Between 2008 and 2014, the abortion rate declined 25%, from 19.4 to 14.6 per 1000 women aged 15 to 44 years. The abortion rate for adolescents aged 15 to 19 years declined 46%, the largest of any group. Abortion rates declined for all racial and ethnic groups but were larger for non-White women than for non-Hispanic White women. Although the abortion rate decreased 26% for women with incomes less than 100% of the federal poverty level, this population had the highest abortion rate of all the groups examined: 36.6. If the 2014 age-specific abortion rates prevail, 24% of women aged 15 to 44 years in that year will have an abortion by age 45 years.CONCLUSIONS: The decline in abortion was not uniform across all population groups. labels: #Abortion, Induced#Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Continental Population Groups#Educational Status#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Incidence#Income#Marital Status#Pregnancy#Prevalence#United States#Young Adult'
b"As the United States experiences an epidemic of prescription drug abuse, and guidelines on safe practices in prescribing opioids in chronic pain have subsequently emerged from professional organizations and governmental agencies, limited guidance exists for prescribers of opioids to treat pain in patients with cancer or terminal illness. Patients with active cancer or terminal illness often have pain and are frequently prescribed opioids and other controlled substances. Current studies suggest that patients with cancer have similar rates of risk for misuse, abuse, and addiction as the general public. Moreover, palliative care and hospice programs appear poorly prepared for assessing or managing patients with aberrant behaviors or evidence of drug abuse. Further research and professional consensus are needed to help address the challenges associated with misuse, abuse, and addiction in patients with cancer and terminal illness. labels: #Analgesics, Opioid#Attitude of Health Personnel#Chronic Pain#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Neoplasms#Opioid-Related Disorders#Physician's Role#Prescription Drug Misuse#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Risk Management#Taboo#Terminal Care"
b"BACKGROUND: Opioids are frequently used in chronic pain management but are associated with significant morbidity and mortality in some patient populations. An important avenue for identifying complications-including serious or rare complications-is the study of closed malpractice claims. The present study is intended to complement the existing closed claims literature by drawing on claims from a more recent timeframe through a partnership with a large malpractice carrier, the Controlled Risk Insurance Company (CRICO). The goal of this study was to identify patient medical comorbidities and aberrant drug behaviors, as well as prescriber practices associated with patient injury and malpractice claims. Another objective was to identify claims most likely to result in payments and use this information to propose a strategy for reducing medicolegal risk.METHODS: The CRICO Strategies Comparative Benchmarking System is a database of claims drawing from>350,000 malpractice claims from Harvard-affiliated institutions and>400 other academic and community institutions across the United States. This database was queried for closed claims from January 1, 2009, to December 31, 2013, and identified 37 cases concerning noninterventional, outpatient chronic pain management. Each file consisted of a narrative summary, including expert witness testimony, as well as coded fields for patient demographics, medical comorbidities, the alleged damaging event, the alleged injurious outcome, the total financial amount incurred, and more. We performed an analysis using these claim files.RESULTS: The mean patient age was 43.5 years, with men representing 59.5% of cases. Payments were made in 27% of cases, with a median payment of $72,500 and a range of $7500-$687,500. The majority of cases related to degenerative joint disease of the spine and failed back surgery syndrome; no patients in this series received treatment of malignant pain. Approximately half (49%) of cases involved a patient death. The use of long-acting opioids and medical conditions affecting the cardiac and pulmonary systems were more closely associated with death than with other outcomes. The nonpain medical conditions present in this analysis included obesity, obstructive sleep apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, and coronary artery disease. Other claims ranged from alleged addiction to opioids from improper prescribing to alleged abandonment with withdrawal of care. The CRICO analysis suggested that patient behavior contributed to over half of these claims, whereas deficits in clinical judgment contributed to approximately 40% of the claims filed.CONCLUSIONS: Claims related to outpatient medication management in pain medicine are multifactorial, stemming from deficits in clinical judgment by physicians, noncooperation in care by patients, and poor clinical documentation. Minimization of both legal risk and patient harm can be achieved by carefully selecting patients for chronic opioid therapy and documenting compliance and improvement with the treatment plan. Medical comorbidities such as obstructive sleep apnea and the use of long-acting opioids may be particularly dangerous. Continuing physician education on the safest and most effective approaches to manage these medications in everyday practice will lead to both improved legal security and patient safety. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Ambulatory Care#Analgesics, Opioid#Cause of Death#Chronic Pain#Comorbidity#Compensation and Redress#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Insurance, Liability#Liability, Legal#Male#Malpractice#Medical Errors#Middle Aged#Pain Clinics#Pain Measurement#Patient Safety#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Process Assessment (Health Care)#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'Buprenorphine maintenance therapy patients frequently have severe postoperative pain due to buprenorphine-induced hyperalgesia and provider use of opioids with limited efficacy in the presence of buprenorphine. The authors report good-to-excellent pain management in 4 obstetric patients using nonopioid analgesics, regional anesthesia, continuation of buprenorphine, and use of opioids with high \xce\xbc receptor affinity. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Obstetrical#Analgesia, Patient-Controlled#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthetics, Local#Buprenorphine, Naloxone Drug Combination#Cesarean Section, Repeat#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Narcotic Antagonists#Opiate Substitution Treatment#Opioid-Related Disorders#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain Perception#Pain Threshold#Pain, Postoperative#Pregnancy#Sterilization, Tubal#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: The United States is in the midst of an opioid epidemic, and opioid use disorder often begins with a prescription for acute pain. The perioperative period represents an important opportunity to prevent chronic opioid use, and recently there has been a paradigm shift toward implementation of enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols that promote opioid-free and multimodal analgesia. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of an ERAS intervention for colorectal surgery on discharge opioid prescribing practices.METHODS: We conducted a historical-prospective quality improvement study of an ERAS protocol implemented for patients undergoing colorectal surgery with a focus on the opioid-free and multimodal analgesia components of the pathway. We compared patients undergoing colorectal surgery 1 year before implementation (June 15, 2015, to June 14, 2016) and 1 year after implementation (June 15, 2016, to June 14, 2017).RESULTS: Before the ERAS intervention, opioids at discharge were not significantly increasing (1% per month; 95% confidence interval [CI], -1% to 3%; P = .199). Immediately after the ERAS intervention, opioid prescriptions were not significantly lower (13%; 95% CI, -30% to 3%; P = .110). After the intervention, the rate of opioid prescriptions at discharge did not decrease significantly 1% (95% CI, -3% to 1%) compared to the pre-period rate (P = .399). Subgroup analysis showed that in patients with a combination of low discharge pain scores, no preoperative opioid use, and low morphine milligram equivalents consumption before discharge, the rate of discharge opioid prescription was 72% (95% CI, 61%-83%).CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to report discharge opioid prescribing practices in an ERAS setting. Although an ERAS intervention for colorectal surgery led to an increase in opioid-free anesthesia and multimodal analgesia, we did not observe an impact on discharge opioid prescribing practices. The majority of patients were discharged with an opioid prescription, including those with a combination of low discharge pain scores, no preoperative opioid use, and low morphine milligram equivalents consumption before discharge. This observation in the setting of an ERAS pathway that promotes multimodal analgesia suggests that our findings are very likely to also be observed in non-ERAS settings and offers an opportunity to modify opioid prescribing practices on discharge after surgery. For opioid-free anesthesia and multimodal analgesia to influence the opioid epidemic, the dose and quantity of the opioids prescribed should be modified based on the information gathered by in-hospital pain scores and opioid use as well as pain history before admission. labels: #Adult#Aged#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Analgesics, Opioid#Colon#Comparative Effectiveness Research#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug Prescriptions#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Patient Discharge#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Program Evaluation#Prospective Studies#Quality Improvement#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Rectum#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome"
b'To investigate the effects of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) gene polymorphisms on the onset of osteomyelitis in Chinese Han population.In all, 80 osteomyelitis patients (case group) and 81 healthy people (control group) were recruited into this case-control study. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method was utilized to examine the genotypes of MMP-1 polymorphisms (-1607 2G/1G and -519A/G) in the 2 groups. Genotype and allele differences between the case and control groups were analyzed by chi-square test. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated to present the association strength between MMP-1 gene polymorphisms and osteomyelitis.Frequencies of -1607 2G/2G genotype between the case and control groups were statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025). Compared with 1G/1G genotype carriers, the 2G/2G genotype carriers had 1.605 times risk of developing osteomyelitis (OR 2.605, 95% CI 1.116-6.082). Meanwhile, the 2G allele significantly associated with the risk of osteomyelitis (OR 1.735, 95% CI 1.115-2.701). In addition, frequency of -519GG genotype was obviously higher in case group than that in control group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024), and GG genotype related to an increased risk of osteomyelitis (OR 2.792, 95% CI 1.127-6.917). Whereas, the -519G allele may be a susceptible factor for osteomyelitis (OR 1.622, 95% CI 1.038-2.536).The MMP-1 -1607 (2G/1G) and -519 (A/G) polymorphisms may contribute to the onset of osteomyelitis. labels: #Adult#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 1#Odds Ratio#Osteomyelitis#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors'
b'To investigate the diagnostic value of electrocardiographic (ECG) ST-segment in acute inferior myocardial infarction (AIMI) caused by the left circumflex branch (LCX).A total of 240 clinical cases with AIMI in our hospital were retrospectively analyzed. All of them had received percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) within 12\xe2\x80\x8ahours after symptom onset. The clinical features, ECG manifestations, and coronary artery lesion characteristics of the patients were collected.The right coronary artery (RCA) was shown to be the infarct-related artery (IRA) in 177 patients, while LCX was responsible for AIMI in 63 cases. There was no significant difference in the risk factors of coronary heart disease (CHD) (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05 for all) between the 2 groups. ST-segment elevation in lead II, III, and AVF could be found in all patients. Moreover, ST-segment depression in lead I (STD I), ST-segment elevation in lead III (STE III), STE III-STE II, STE AVF, STD AVL, STD AVL-STD I and STE v6 lead ST-segment deviation exhibited significant difference in 2 groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05 for all). The changes of STD I, STE III<STEII, STD AVL<STD I could discriminate between LCX and RCA in AIMI patients with high sensitivity and specificity.ECG may be an effective tool to predict the IRA in patient with AIMI. labels: #Aged#Brugada Syndrome#Bundle-Branch Block#Cardiac Conduction System Disease#Coronary Disease#Coronary Occlusion#Coronary Vessels#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Humans#Inferior Wall Myocardial Infarction#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'The purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) and combined of intravenous and inhaled anesthesia (CIIA) on intraoperative awareness in surgical patients.A total of 678 patients were recruited in the CIIA group, while TIVA group included 566 patients. The clinical characteristics and the occurrence of intraoperative awareness were compared between the groups. Mini-Mental State Examination, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7, and Patient Health Questionnaire 9 tests were performed to estimate cognitive and psychological functions of the patients. In addition, logistic regression analysis was applied to identify the risk factors for intraoperative awareness in surgical patients.In CIIA group, 3 patients (0.44%) were confirmed with intraoperative awareness, while 11 patients (1.94%) in TIVA group underwent intraoperative awareness. The occurrence rate of intraoperative awareness was significantly higher in VITA group than that in the CIIA group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.029). Awareness classification demonstrated that intraoperative awareness mainly included auditory, tactile, and pain perceptions. Moreover, 4 patients showed distress after operation. Patients with intraoperative awareness exhibited poor performance in cognitive and psychological tests (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001 for all). Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that CIIA (odds ratio [OR]\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.198, 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.047-0.827), age (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.951, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.908-0.997), midazolam application (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.158, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.034-0.736), awareness history (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a10.131, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.206-45.517), and duration of surgery (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.016, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.001-1.032) were significantly associated with intraoperative awareness.Intraoperative awareness can significantly influence the cognitive and psychological functions of surgical patients. CIIA and midazolam application may lower the risk of intraoperative awareness. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia, General#Anesthesia, Inhalation#Anesthesia, Intravenous#Anesthetics, Inhalation#Female#Humans#Intraoperative Awareness#Logistic Models#Male#Methyl Ethers#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Postoperative Period#Propofol#Stress, Psychological#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Urinary lithiasis is one of severe postoperative complications in patients undergoing renal transplantation, possibly leading to anuria, urinary infection, or even acute renal failure. Potassium sodium hydrogen citrate (PSHC), a potassium-bearing citrate, is commonly prescribed to prevent stone formation.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old man (patient 1) and a 31-year-old man (patient 2) receiving renal transplantation for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) were enrolled in this study. They were given 10\xe2\x80\x8ag/day of PSHC granules from the ninth day to the 17th day after surgery. Patient 1 presented chest tightness, nausea, muscle weakness, and ascending paralysis on the 10th day. Patient 2 presented weak waves on EGG on the 17th day. Moreover, their serum potassium concentrations (SPCs) were 7.67 and 6.05\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, respectively.DIAGNOSIS: Acute hyperkalemia.INTERVENTIONS: Hemo-filtration was performed for patient 1, while patient 2 received 10% calcium gluconate 10\xe2\x80\x8amL, 5% NaHCO3 125\xe2\x80\x8amL, and 10% glucose 500\xe2\x80\x8amL with the addition of 10 units of insulin through intravenous drip.OUTCOMES: Their SPCs dropped to the normal range.LESSONS: Physicians should pay close attentions to potential risks caused by PSHC, and monitor the SPCs to minimize the occurrence of hyperkalemia. labels: #Adult#Diuretics#Humans#Hyperkalemia#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Postoperative Complications#Potassium Citrate#Urolithiasis'
b'Ras association domain protein 10 (RASSF10) was reported to act as a prognostic indicator in various types of cancer and it was proved to be tumor suppressor gene in colorectal cancer (CRC). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of RASSF10 in CRC.Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to detect the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression while enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was taken to measure the protein expression of RASSF10 in tumor tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 102 patients with CRC. The relationship between RASSF10 expression level and clinical characteristics of CRC patients was analyzed by chi-squared test. In addition, the association between overall survival of CRC patients and RASSF10 expression was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Cox regression analysis was used to evaluate the prognostic value of RASSF10.The expression level of RASSF10 in tumor tissues was significantly lower than that in the normal tissues both at mRNA and protein levels. Moreover, the expression level was correlated with lymph-node-metastasis and tumor-node-metastasis stage. Kaplan-Meier analysis suggested that patients with high expression level of RASSF10 had a longer overall survival than those with low level (log-rank test, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Besides, RASSF10 might be a potential biomarker in the prognosis of CRC according to cox regression analysis.The down regulated of RASSF10 is found in CRC and it may be an ideal prognostic marker. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Chi-Square Distribution#Colorectal Neoplasms#Down-Regulation#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Regression Analysis#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b'RATIONALE: Gustatory otorrhea can lead to cutaneous changes, recurrent infection, and social disruption. We present a case of a late, evolving sialocutaneous fistula to the external auditory canal, managed surgically after failing conservative therapies. This case is unique by late evolution, whereby the symptoms presented with significance 27 years after her operation and 19 years after mild symptoms initially arose.PATIENT CONCERNS: Gustatory, left-sided clear otorrhea with acutely increased volume over 8 months causing social disruption.DIAGNOSES: Sialocutaneous fistula to the external auditory canal.INTERVENTIONS: Superficial parotidectomy and temporoparietal flap for closure of fistula.OUTCOMES: No postoperative complications and resolution of gustatory otorrhea at one-year follow-up.LESSONS: This rare, but important, postoperative complication can present late with evolving symptoms, causing significant social disruption. It can be treated with conservative medical management and several surgical approaches. labels: #Adult#Cutaneous Fistula#Ear Canal#Fascia#Fasciotomy#Female#Humans#Late Onset Disorders#Parotid Gland#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Salivary Gland Fistula#Surgical Flaps#Sweating, Gustatory#Temporal Muscle'
b'INTRODUCTION: Duodenal obstructions caused by congenital anatomic abnormalities are rare in adults. Several patients in whom the duodenal obstruction was caused by a congenital duodenal diaphragm have been described. The duodenal obstruction in the patient presented herein was caused by a transverse septum, which has not been previously reported. A transverse septum is usually observed in the vagina; those involving the digestive tract have been rarely observed.CASE PRESENTATION: We herein report a case involving a 69-year-old woman with a congenital duodenal transverse septum causing partial obstruction. She was admitted to our hospital with a 3-month history of epigastric pain and vomiting. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, iodinated water-soluble contrast imaging, and abdominal computed tomography revealed dilation of the stomach and a neoplasm in the descending part of the duodenum. The patient was suspected to have a tumor in the descending part of the duodenum. Exploratory laparotomy showed a banded duodenal transverse septum at the junction of the second part of the duodenum. The duodenal transverse septum was approximately 2\xe2\x80\x8amm thick and 1\xe2\x80\x8acm wide and divided the duodenal lumen into 2 parts. The duodenal papillae were completely normal and located under the duodenal transverse septum. Histopathological analysis of the transverse septum showed that it was similar to the organizational structure of the duodenal wall.CONCLUSION: The possibility of congenital disease should be considered in older patients with intestinal obstruction, even when imaging studies reveal a duodenal neoplasm. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Aged#Diagnosis, Differential#Duodenal Neoplasms#Duodenal Obstruction#Duodenum#Female#Humans#Vomiting'
b'This study aimed to analyze the correlation of the plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) gene polymorphisms (rs6092 and rs7242) with susceptibility of osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH).This case-control study included 106 ONFH patients and 151 healthy controls. PAI-1 polymorphisms were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with direct sequencing. The genotype distribution of polymorphism in the control group was checked with the status of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE). The \xcf\x87 test was applied to compare the genotypes of polymorphisms between the case and control groups. The association intensity between PAI-1 polymorphisms and ONFH risk was estimated by odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). The linkage disequilibrium of PAI-1 polymorphisms was analyzed by Haploview.We found that the genotypes and alleles of PAI-1 rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms had no obvious association with the risk of ONFH (P\xe2\x80\x8a>.05). But the strong linkage disequilibrium existed between rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms and haplotype G-T was significantly associated with the decreased risk of ONFH occurrence (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.666, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.445-0.998).PAI-1 rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms are not associated with ONFH development, but haplotype G-T may be a protective factor of ONFH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Female#Femur Head Necrosis#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'The aim of the study is to evaluate the use of the tumor border in peripheral non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) as an indicator of pleural invasion.This retrospective study was performed at a single tertiary center. The analysis of 136 patients with peripheral NSCLC included 101 (74.3%) patients with pathologically proven pleural invasion and 35 (25.7%) patients without pleural invasion. The tumor borders on conventional computed tomography (CT) were classified into 5 types on lung window setting: type 1, S or reverse S border with a blunt angle; type 2, sharp angle; type 3, concave border with a blunt angle; type 4, straight border with a perpendicular angle; and type 5, convex border with a perpendicular or blunt angle. In patients with more than 1 tumor border type, the priority was type 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Blunt angle, pleural contact>3\xe2\x80\x8acm, and adjacent pleural thickening were also recorded for comparison with pleural invasion of peripheral tumors.Tumor border types 2 and 5 significantly differed between patients with and without pleural invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). Patients with and without pleural invasion did not significantly differ in tumor border type 1, tumor border type 3, tumor border type 4, blunt angle, pleural contact>3\xe2\x80\x8acm, or pleural thickening. Tumor border type 5 was a moderate indicator of pleural invasion with positive LR, 5.20; accuracy, 57%; sensitivity, 45%; specificity, 91%; PPV, 94%; and NPV, 36%. Tumor border type 2 was a weak indicator of pleural invasion with positive LR, 0.51; accuracy, 34%; sensitivity, 34%; specificity, 34%; PPV, 60%; and NPV, 15%.Tumor border type 5 has a high PPV and high specificity for predicting pleural invasion by peripheral NSCLC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Pleura#Pleural Neoplasms#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Primary cardiac angiosarcoma is rare, but it is the most aggressive type of cardiac malignant tumor. When disease is confirmed it is often late in its stage resulting in a poor prognosis.CASE PRESENTATION: We reported a 52-year-old woman who complained of dyspnea for 2 months and dry cough for 10 days. Computed tomography (CT), F-fluorodeoxyglucose (F-FDG), positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT), and transthoracic echocardiography showed a space-occupying lesion 7\xe2\x80\x8acm\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8acm\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8acm in the right atrium. Malignant cells can be seen in pericardial fluid by pericardiocentesis in local hospital, but not be diagnosed definitely. We conducted CT-guided biopsy of the tumor and observed the necrotic tissues. An exploratory thoracotomy was performed and histological examination confirmed angiosarcoma. Unable to be surgical excision due to infiltrating widely, the patients received chemotherapy with docetaxel for 2 cycles and the disease was progressive. Antiangiogenesis-targeted therapy was combined with chemotherapy for 3 months. Unfortunately, the tumor was still in progress. She died of respiratory failure, survived for 10 months.CONCLUSION: It is difficult to diagnose the primary cardiac angiosarcoma in early stage. Chemotherapy and target therapy are very limited in this case. Surgery remains the preferred treatment for patients with primary cardiac angiosarcoma. More efforts should be carried out on the effective diagnosis and multimodality treatment for this malignant disease. labels: #Cough#Dyspnea#Echocardiography#Fatal Outcome#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Heart Atria#Heart Neoplasms#Hemangiosarcoma#Humans#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Radiopharmaceuticals'
b'This study aimed to explore the genetic association of polymorphisms in caveolin-1 gene (CAV1) with hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-related HCC) susceptibility in a Chinese Han population.The genotyping of polymorphism was conducted using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Whether the genotype distribution of polymorphisms in the healthy controls was consistent with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) was detected. The genotype and allele frequency difference between the 2 groups was compared by chi-square test. Odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were calculated to show the relative risk of HCC which resulted from genetic variants in CAV1. Moreover, the linkage disequilibrium of CAV1 polymorphisms was analyzed by Haploview.The AG genotype and A allele of rs1049334 showed significantly higher frequency in HCC patients than that of chronic HBV patients and the healthy controls (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05); so their carriage obviously increased the susceptibility to HBV-related HCC, irrespective of the fact whether individuals were infected with hepatitis B virus or not (AG vs GG: OR 1.958, 95% CI 1.050-3.650, OR 1.899, 95% CI 1.034-3.487; A vs G: OR 1.667, 95% CI 1.033-2.689, OR 1.777, 95% CI 1.103-2.863). Additionally, A-G haplotype of rs3807989-rs1049334 showed the protective role for HBV-related HCC (OR 0.102, 95% CI 0.035-0.293; OR 0.135, 95% CI 0.046-0.395).CAV1 rs1049334 polymorphism is significantly associated with the occurrence risk of HBV-related HCC, and the interaction of polymorphisms should not be neglected. labels: #Adult#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Case-Control Studies#Caveolin 1#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors'
b'Early diagnosis is pivotal for prognosis of lung cancer patients. Positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET-CT) is a useful method for human cancer diagnosis. In this study, we aimed to explore the false positive diagnosis of PET-CT in lung cancerIn total, 754 patients diagnosed with lung cancer via PET-CT were retrospectively collected in this study. Histopathological detection served as gold standard. The diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT was defined as the proportion of lung cancer cases confirmed by pathological diagnosis in the study subjects, and the percentages of misdiagnosed cases represented the false positive diagnosis of PET-CT. Chi-square test and logistic regression analysis were used to analyze the association of pathologically confirmed result with clinical characteristics.Among all the patients, 705 cases were pathologically confirmed with lung cancer. The diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT was 93.5%, and the false positive rate was 6.50%. Among the false positive patients, inflammatory pseudotumor (42.86%) and tuberculoma (36.74%) were the most pathological types. In the positive detection group, adenocarcinoma (57.16%) and squamous carcinoma (33.19%) were the main pathological types, and 68.09% of the lung cancer patients were at the advanced stages. The false positive rate were related with age, diabetes, interleukin-6 (IL-6) level, and T-spot test (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).PET-CT could be a good diagnostic method for lung cancer, but the false positive cases could appear. Detection of inflammatory indicators such as IL-6 and T-spot TB test may help improve the diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT. labels: #Chi-Square Distribution#Diagnosis, Differential#Diagnostic Errors#False Positive Reactions#Female#Granuloma, Plasma Cell#Humans#Logistic Models#Lung Diseases#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Retrospective Studies#Tuberculoma#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) modulates the oxidative stress and inflammatory response, thus, it might relate to the risk of ankylosing spondylitis (AS). The aim of present study was to discover the correlation of PON1 polymorphisms (rs662 and rs854560) with PON1 activity and AS risk.Around 128 AS patients and 146 healthy controls were recruited in this case-control study. PON1 polymorphisms were genotyped by direct sequencing. Serum PON1 activity was detected and compared by nonparametric test in different genotypes of PON1 polymorphisms. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to present the relative risk for AS.GG genotype and G allele of rs662 polymorphism were closely correlated with enhanced AS risk (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.034, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.318, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.051-5.113; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.032, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.485, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.033-2.135). PON1 activity was obviously higher in controls than that in AS patients. Significant difference of PON1 activity has been discovered in the different rs662 genotypes (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01). rs662 GG genotype carriers had the lowest PON1 activity, followed by AG carriers and the AA carriers. Besides, no significant relationship existed between rs854560 genotypes and AS risk.PON1 rs662 polymorphism is significantly correlated with increased AS risk via inhibiting PON1 activity. labels: #Alleles#Aryldialkylphosphatase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#China#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Statistics, Nonparametric'
b'This study aimed to evaluate the effects of psychological intervention and psychological plus drug intervention on smoking cessation among male smokers with single chronic diseases.A total of 509 male smokers were divided into psychological group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a290) and psychological plus drugs (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a219) groups according to their will. The physicians provided free individual counseling and follow-up interviews with brief counseling for all the subjects. In addition to mental intervention, patients in psychological plus drug group also received bupropion hydrochloride or varenicline tartrate to quit smoking. Outcomes were self-reported, regarding the 7-day point prevalence on abstinence rate and continuous abstinence rates at 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-up period. Data analyses were performed using intention-to-treat analysis and per protocol analysis.With regards to the 3 follow-up time points, 7-day point-prevalence abstinence rate in psychological plus drugs group was all higher than that in the psychological intervention group. Additionally, the 3-month continuous abstinence rate (21.4%) of the 6-month follow-up in the psychological group was not significantly higher than that (26.9%) in the psychological plus drugs group (P\xe2\x80\x8a>.05 for all). Fagerstr\xc3\xb6m test score, stage of quitting smoking, perceived confidence or difficulty in quitting, and chronic disease types were independently correlated with 3-month continuous abstinence in the 6-month follow up (P\xe2\x80\x8a<.05 for all). The results were similar between intentional analysis and protocol analysis.The psychological intervention and psychological plus drugs intervention exerted good effects on smoking cessation in a short time (1 month). Nevertheless, the advantages did not appear during long-time (6 months) follow-up. labels: #Adult#Bupropion#Chronic Disease#Combined Modality Therapy#Counseling#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Male#Middle Aged#Nicotinic Agonists#Smoking#Smoking Cessation#Treatment Outcome#Varenicline'
b'Our purpose was to investigate the possible associations between N-acetyltransferase-2 (NAT2) gene polymorphisms and the risk of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in Chinese Han population.A case-control study was conducted including 98 AML cases and 112 healthy controls. NAT2 gene 2 polymorphisms rs1799930 and rs1799931 were genotyped using direct sequencing. Chi-square test was performed to compare the genotype and allele distribution differences between groups. Odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated to estimate the association between NAT2 gene polymorphisms and AML onset.A remarkable decrease trend of rs1799931 GA genotype was detected in AML patients compared with controls, whereas the ancestral GG genotype frequency increased in cases (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). And the mutant A allele of rs1799931 significantly reduced the risk of AML by 0.585-fold versus the ancestral G allele carriers (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.585, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.361-0.950). But the distributions of rs1799930 genotype and allele were similar between groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05).Our findings suggested that NAT2 gene polymorphism rs1799931 was associated with decreased risk of AML and was likely to be a protective factor against AML development. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Alleles#Arylamine N-Acetyltransferase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b"The incidence of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing worldwide and affecting the quality of people's life. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of care intervention on body weight and glycemic parameters in obese T2DM patients.One hundred twenty-six obese T2DM cases were randomly divided into 2 groups. Patients in control group received conventional care, while patients in the intervention group received dietary, exercise, and psychology interventions on the basis of conventional care. Twelve months follow-up was performed to compare the changes of body weight and glycemic parameters in the 2 groups.There were 119 patients completing the research, 60 in the intervention group and 59 in control group. The levels of fasting plasma glucose (FPG), 2\xe2\x80\x8ahours postprandial blood glucose (PBG2\xe2\x80\x8ah), hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), and aldose reductase (AR) were all significantly decreased (all, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in intervention group compared with the control group after 12 months follow-up. Moreover, the body weight and BMI (body mass index) were also significantly reduced in intervention group, and the weight loss was significantly higher in intervention group than that in control group during the follow-up.To implement care intervention for obese T2DM patients could strengthen the management of blood glucose, reduce body weight and complications. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aldehyde Reductase#Behavior Therapy#Blood Glucose#Body Mass Index#Body Weight#Combined Modality Therapy#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diet, Diabetic#Exercise Therapy#Fasting#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Obesity#Postprandial Period#Treatment Outcome#Weight Loss#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a rare but highly malignant form of echinococcosis caused by Echinococcus multilocularis. There have been very few reports on multiple-organ AE, especially AE in bones. Here we report 3 rare cases of disseminated multiple-organ AE from western China and its neighboring areas.PATIENT CONCERNS: Patient 1 had back and left hip pain, headache, and weakness in left lower limb, often with minor epilepsy and fluctuation of blood pressure. Lower limbs Babinski sign was positive and muscular tension was above normal range. The second patient had pain in lower limbs and chest discomfort without fever, cough, sputum, chest tightness, or hemoptysis. Patient 3 had masses and pain in the back side of his right shoulder.DIAGNOSES: The patients had been treated for AE multiple times and were positive for serum hydatid antigens. They were diagnosed as multiorgan AE involving liver, spinal cord, and many other organs.INTERVENTIONS: The patients had undergone surgeries to decompress the spinal cord, remove lesions from tissues as required, and were put on albendazole for at least 2 years.OUTCOMES: The patients responded well and AE recurrence has not occurred.LESSONS: All 3 cases experienced multiple recurrences of AE due to missed diagnosis, misdiagnosis, or inappropriate treatment, which resulted in metastatic multiorgan AE. These cases demonstrated the need for more policy attention to battle AE endemic in western China. labels: #Adult#Animals#China#Echinococcosis#Echinococcosis, Hepatic#Echinococcosis, Pulmonary#Echinococcus multilocularis#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Muscular Diseases'
b"RATIONALE: In very rare cases, a primary infected abdominal aortic aneurysm (IAAA) is caused by a species of Brucella. In this report, we report such a case that was successfully treated with a novel approach. To the best of our knowledge, this was the first case occurring in China, in which an infection of the abdominal aortic aneurysm was caused by a Brucella species.PATIENT CONCERNS: The clinical findings included high fever, fatigue, and abdominal pain.DIAGNOSES: The diagnosis was confirmed by computed tomography angiography and by bacteriologic isolation from the patient's blood culture.INTERVENTIONS: The patient was given endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) and Brucella-sensitive antibiotics for 6 weeks.OUTCOMES: During the 10-month follow-up, the patient's clinical course remained uneventful.LESSONS: Our case study supports the premise that endovascular aneurysm repair is an appropriate alternative strategy to treat an infected abdominal aortic aneurysm. Compared with conventional surgical treatment, EVAR with long-term oral antibiotics is a simpler, less traumatic, and more efficient procedure. However, this needs to be further evaluated through long-term follow-up. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Brucella#Brucellosis#Combined Modality Therapy#Endovascular Procedures#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to identify key genes associated with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) by reanalyzing microarray data.METHODS: Three gene expression profile datasets GSE66360, GSE34198, and GSE48060 were downloaded from GEO database. After data preprocessing, genes without heterogeneity across different platforms were subjected to differential expression analysis between the AMI group and the control group using metaDE package. P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05 was used as the cutoff for a differentially expressed gene (DEG). The expression data matrices of DEGs were imported in ReactomeFIViz to construct a gene functional interaction (FI) network. Then, DEGs in each module were subjected to pathway enrichment analysis using DAVID. MiRNAs and transcription factors predicted to regulate target DEGs were identified. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was applied to verify the expression of genes.RESULT: A total of 913 upregulated genes and 1060 downregulated genes were identified in the AMI group. A FI network consists of 21 modules and DEGs in 12 modules were significantly enriched in pathways. The transcription factor-miRNA-gene network contains 2 transcription factors FOXO3 and MYBL2, and 2 miRNAs hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p. RT-PCR validations showed that expression levels of FOXO3 and MYBL2 were significantly increased in AMI, and expression levels of hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p were obviously decreased in AMI.CONCLUSION: A total of 41 DEGs, such as SOCS3, VAPA, and COL5A2, are speculated to have roles in the pathogenesis of AMI; 2 transcription factors FOXO3 and MYBL2, and 2 miRNAs hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p may be involved in the regulation of the expression of these DEGs. labels: #Cell Cycle Proteins#Databases, Genetic#Down-Regulation#Forkhead Box Protein O3#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Association Studies#Humans#MicroRNAs#Myocardial Infarction#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Trans-Activators#Transcription Factors#Up-Regulation'
b'To identify the epidemiology, treatments, outcomes, and risk factors for patients with early- or late-onset invasive candidiasis (EOIC or LOIC) in intensive care units in China.Patients were classified as EOIC (\xe2\x89\xa410 days) or LOIC (>10 days) according to the time from hospital admission to IC onset to identify distinct clinical characteristics.There were 105 EOIC cases and 201 LOIC cases in this study. EOIC was related to more severe clinical conditions at ICU admission or prior to IC. Significantly, more cases of Candida parapsilosis infection were found in patients with LOIC than in those with EOIC. The mortality of EOIC was significantly lower than that for LOIC. Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score at ICI diagnosis in the EOIC group and the interval from ICU admission to ICI occurrence in the LOIC group were identified as risk factors for mortality. Susceptibility to the first-line agent was associated with a lower risk of mortality in the LOIC group.The mortality rate was significantly lower in the EOIC group, and there were more cases of non-albicans infection in the LOIC group. Susceptibility to the first-line agent was an important predictor of mortality in the LOIC group. SOFA score at ICI diagnosis in the EOIC group and interval from ICU admission to ICI occurrence in the LOIC group were identified as risk factors for mortality. labels: #Adult#Aged#Candida#Candidiasis, Invasive#China#Cross Infection#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#Organ Dysfunction Scores#Risk Factors#Time Factors'
b'Essential hypertension (EH) is a complex disease in which physiological, environmental, and genetic factors are involved in its genesis. The genetic variant of the alpha-adducin gene (ADD1) has been described as a risk factor for EH, but with controversial results.The objective of this study was to evaluate the association of ADD1 (Gly460Trp) gene polymorphism with the EH risk in a population from Madeira Island.A case-control study with 1614 individuals of Caucasian origin was performed, including 817 individuals with EH and 797 controls. Cases and controls were matched for sex and age, by frequency-matching method. All participants collected blood for biochemical and genotypic analysis for the Gly460Trp polymorphism. We further investigated which variables were independently associated to EH, and, consequently, analyzed their interactions.In our study, we found a significant association between the ADD1 gene polymorphism and EH (odds ratio 2.484, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01). This association remained statistically significant after the multivariate analysis (odds ratio 2.548, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02).The ADD1 Gly460Trp gene polymorphism is significantly and independently associated with EH risk in our population. The knowledge of genetic polymorphisms associated with EH is of paramount importance because it leads to a better understanding of the etiology and pathophysiology of this pathology. labels: #Adult#Calmodulin-Binding Proteins#Case-Control Studies#Essential Hypertension#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Genetic#Portugal#Risk Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Prune belly syndrome (PBS) is a rare congenital disorder among adults, and the way for repairing abdominal wall musculature has no unified standard.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We described combining laparoscopic and open technique in an adult male who presented with PBS. Physical examination and radiological imaging verified the case of PBS. The deficiency of abdominal wall musculature was repaired by combining laparoscopic and open technique using a double-deck complex patch.RESULTS: The patient successfully underwent abdominal wall repair by combining laparoscopic and open technique. Postoperative recovery was uneventful, and improvement in symptom was significant in follow-up after 3, 6, 12, and 24 months.CONCLUSIONS: Combining laparoscopic and open technique for repair of deficiency of abdominal wall musculature in PBS was an exploratory way to improve life quality. labels: #Adult#Combined Modality Therapy#Gastroscopy#Hernia, Abdominal#Herniorrhaphy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Prune Belly Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b"This study aims to analyze the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).A retrospective audit was conducted examining 147 patients treated for EOC. Surgical treatment with curative intent, with or without NACT and adjuvant chemotherapy, is the treatment approach, which was modified according to the patient's condition. The incidence of VTE with the most commonly used chemotherapy regimen, carboplatin, cisplatin, paclitaxel, docetaxel, and others were evaluated.This study found a 13.6% incidence of VTE in patients undergoing therapy with curative intent for EOC. No association was seen between NACT and VTE compared to VTE after standard treatment: 2/16 (12.5%) vs 5/131 (3.8%) (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.16). Univariate and multivariate analyses also demonstrated that NACT has no risk for VTE with odds ratio (OR)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.89 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.18-4.28) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1. Results did not vary significantly with the type of chemotherapy used. Furthermore, increased incidence of VTE as an incidental finding supports the well-established role of malignancy in VTE occurrence. Univariate and multivariate analyses demonstrated that VTE occurred more frequently in menopausal women than nonmenopausal women (17.9% vs 5.8%) with OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3.55 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.99-12.78) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04 in patients aged \xe2\x89\xa560 (19.3% vs 10%) with OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.15 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.83-5.57) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.13 but is not statistically significant.We conclude that NACT has no association with VTE and the currently used common chemotherapeutic drug combinations for ovarian cancer carry the minimal risk of thromboembolic events. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Humans#Incidence#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Venous Thromboembolism"
b'Little is known about hospital readmission for patients with diabetes in China. We aimed to assess the temporal pattern, risk factors, and variations of all-cause readmission among hospitalized patients with diabetes in Tianjin, China, from 2008 to 2013.The Tianjin Basic Medical Insurance Register System database was used to identify discharged patients with diabetes from 2008 to 2013. The influential factors and trends of rehospitalization were analyzed for 30-, 60- and 90-day predicted readmission rates. The Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition was used to explain the readmission variations between 2008 and 2013.The long stay-time at the index hospitalization is a shared risk factor for readmission at 30, 60, and 90 days each year. The 90-day predicted readmission rates were the highest for each year (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The adjusted readmission rates generally decreased by year (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), except for at the 90-day interval, which decreased in 2010 and slightly increased in 2013 (from 7.47% in 2012 to 7.65% in 2013). If the patients had been readmitted to the hospital in 2013 and the only changes that had occurred since 2008 were observable characteristics, then the readmission rates would have decreased by 0.84%, 0.27%, and 0.18% at 30, 60, and 90 days, respectively. The potential policy changes decreased the readmission rates at 1.35%, 2.01%, and 1.04% for the 3 intervals, respectively.Identifying targeted factors for the decrease in readmission rates may help to control readmission, particularly for long-interval patients. labels: #Aged#China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Discharge#Patient Readmission#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors'
b"RATIONALE: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is associated with significant morbidity and mortality in patients with liver failure. Voriconazole (VRCZ) is recommended as a primary therapeutic agent for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and metabolized in the liver. Now, data are still lacking on the safety and appropriate dosage of VRCZ in patients with liver failure. Here, we report a representative case of invasive pulmonary fungal infection in a patient with liver failure who was treated with low-dose VRCZ.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 21-year-old man, presented with subacute liver failure caused suspected by viral infection, was admitted on June 22, 2014. Liver function was not improved by the treatment of gancicolovir and methylprednisolone. The patient presented with fever, cough, and hyperpyrexia on July 14. Laboratory tests revealed raised neutrophil percentage (82.1%, normal range [NR] 50-70), international normalized ratio (INR) (2.32, NR 0.8-1.2) and levels of serum lactic acid (4.308\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, NR 0.6-2.2), alanine transaminase (165\xe2\x80\x8aU/L,NR 0-40), aspartate transaminase (99\xe2\x80\x8aU/L, NR 8-40), and total bilirubin (654\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, NR 3.4-20.5). Furthermore, CD4+ T cell, CD8+T cell, and B cell count were low (169, 221, and l8/mL, respectively). Sputum smear microscopy for bacteria was negative, but the direct observation for fungal elements was positive. Thoracic CT scan revealed bilateral pulmonary high-density shadow. Sputum cultures were positive 2 days later with the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus.DIAGNOSES: Therefore, this patient diagnosed with suspected pulmonary a spergillosis.INTERVENTIONS: VRCZ was used on July 15th and its dosage was 400\xe2\x80\x8amg twice on day 1 followed by a maintenance dose of 100\xe2\x80\x8amg twice daily according to drug usage instruction. However, some side effects, such as tremors, lips twitching, and hair loss, occurred. Plasma VRCZ trough concentration was 8.1\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL which was much higher than the recommend level. Therefore, VRCZ dosage was adjusted according to its plasma concentration. VRCZ plasma concentration fluctuated between 2.5 to 4.7\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL when its dosage was 100\xe2\x80\x8amg once daily and side effects disappeared.OUTCOMES: VRCZ was administered for 2 months. This patient's symptoms and liver function were improved. A follow-up CT scan performed at the end of VRCZ therapy indicated that the high-density shadow had diminished.LESSONS: This case demonstrated that low-dose VRCZ (maintenance dose, 100\xe2\x80\x8amg/day) can achieve effective plasma concentration and reduce side effects without liver damage. We believe that VRCZ is safe to be administered in patients with liver failure, but its plasma concentration should be carefully monitored. labels: #Antifungal Agents#Chemical and Drug Induced Liver Injury#Drug Monitoring#Humans#Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Liver Failure#Male#Treatment Outcome#Voriconazole#Young Adult"
b'This study investigated whether alcohol intoxication (AI) increases the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) by using the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD).Using data from the NHIRD, we assembled 61,229 patients with acute AI and randomly selected 244,916 controls. Each patient was monitored from 2000 to 2011 to identify those who were subsequently diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Cox proportional hazard regression analysis was conducted to determine the risk of VTE in the patients with AI compared with the controls.The incidence rate of DVT during the 10 years follow-up period was 9.36 per 10,000 person-years and 2.07 per 10,000 person-years in the AI and non-AI cohorts, respectively. Moreover, the incidence rate of PE was 4 per 10,000 person-years in the AI cohort and 0.93 in the non-AI cohort. After adjustment for age, sex, and comorbidities, the risks of DVT and PE were 3.40 [95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.83-4.08] and 3.53 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.69-4.65)-fold higher in the AI cohort than in the non-AI cohort.An increased incidence of VTE was observed among patients with AI. Therefore, physicians should carefully estimate the risk of VTE in patients with AI. labels: #Adult#Alcoholic Intoxication#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Proportional Hazards Models#Pulmonary Embolism#Regression Analysis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Taiwan#Venous Thromboembolism'
b'BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to explore the effects of action observation therapy on motor function of upper extremity, activities of daily living, and motion evoked potential in cerebral infarction patients.METHOD: Cerebral infarction survivors were randomly assigned to an experimental group (28 patients) or a control group (25 patients). The conventional rehabilitation treatments were applied in both groups, but the experimental group received an additional action observation therapy for 8 weeks (6 times per week, 20 minutes per time). Fugl-Meyer assessment (FMA), Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT), Modified Barthel Index (MBI), and motor evoked potential (MEP) were used to evaluate the upper limb movement function and daily life activity.RESULTS: There were no significant differences between experiment and control group in the indexes, including FMA, WMFT, and MBI scores, before the intervention. However, after 8 weeks treatments, these indexes were improved significantly. MEP latency and center-motion conduction time (CMCT) decreased from 23.82\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.16 and 11.15\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.68 to 22.69\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.11 and 10.12\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.46\xe2\x80\x8ams. MEP amplitude increased from 0.61\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.22 to 1.25\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.38\xe2\x80\x8amV. A remarkable relationship between the evaluations indexes of MEP and FMA was found.CONCLUSIONS: Combination of motion observation and traditional upper limb rehabilitation treatment technology can significantly elevate the movement function of cerebral infarction patients in subacute seizure phase with upper limb dysfunction, which expanded the application range of motion observation therapy and provided an effective therapy strategy for upper extremities hemiplegia in stroke patients. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Aged#Cerebral Infarction#Evoked Potentials, Motor#Exercise Therapy#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Movement#Observation#Range of Motion, Articular#Recovery of Function#Stroke Rehabilitation#Treatment Outcome#Upper Extremity'
b"RATIONALE: Pelvic malunion is a rare complication and is technically challenging to correct owing to the complex three-dimensional (3D) geometry of the pelvic girdle. Hence, precise preoperative planning is required to ensure appropriate correction. Reconstructive surgery is generally a 2- or 3-stage procedure, with transiliac osteotomy serving as an alternative to address limb length discrepancy.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 38-year-old female patient with a Mears type IV pelvic malunion with previous failed reconstructive surgery was admitted to our department due to progressive immobilization, increasing pain especially at the posterior pelvic arch and a leg length discrepancy. The leg discrepancy was approximately 4 cm and rotation of the right hip joint was associated with pain.DIAGNOSIS: Radiography and computer tomography (CT) revealed a hypertrophic malunion at the site of the previous posterior osteotomy (Mears type IV) involving the anterior and middle column, according to the 3-column concept, as well as malunion of the left anterior arch (Mears type IV).INTERVENTIONS: The surgery was planned virtually via 3D reconstruction, using the patient's CT, and subsequently performed via transiliac osteotomy and symphysiotomy. Finite element method (FEM) was used to plan the osteotomy and osteosynthesis as to include an estimation of the risk of implant failure.OUTCOMES: There was not incidence of neurological injury or infection, and the remaining leg length discrepancy was \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a2 cm. The patient recovered independent, pain free, mobility. Virtual 3D planning provided a more precise measurement of correction parameters than radiographic-based measurements. FEM analysis identified the highest risk for implant failure at the symphyseal plate osteosynthesis and the parasymphyseal screws. No implant failure was observed.LESSONS: Transiliac osteotomy, with additional osteotomy or symphysiotomy, was a suitable surgical procedure for the correction of pelvic malunion and provided adequate correction of leg length discrepancy. Virtual 3D planning enabled precise determination of correction parameters, with FEM analysis providing an appropriate method to predict areas of implant failure. labels: #Adult#Bone Plates#Female#Finite Element Analysis#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Malunited#Humans#Ilium#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Leg Length Inequality#Osteotomy#Pelvic Bones#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Reoperation#Surgery, Computer-Assisted#Treatment Outcome"
b'Postsurgery infection is a common complication after laparoscopic radical cystectomy (LRC) followed by urinary diversion. White blood cell (WBC) values and C-reactive protein (CRP) are routinely used as markers for infection, but lack of specificity and their elevation is often delayed in clinically significant events. In this study, we aimed to investigate the value of procalcitonin (PCT) kinetics in assisting early diagnosis of infection in patients undergoing LRC.The patients\' medical records between May 2013 and May 2016 were reviewed retrospectively. WBC, CRP, and PCT plasma levels as well as clinical symptoms were registered in 306 patients preoperatively (day 0), and 5 consecutive days postoperatively. Based on microbiological and clinical data, patients were grouped into noninfection- (NI-) and infection- (I-) groups. The day of new onset infection was observed were defined as day t0 and the day after that as day t1. For the NI-group, the day on which PCT was at the peak was defined as day t1 and the previous day as day t0.Of the 306 patients, 46 (15.03%) have proven infection. PCT levels were analogous at day t0:NI-group [median (interquartile range)]: 0.69(1.99) vs I-group [median (interquartile range)]: 1.0[0.75], P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.1. PCT levels were significantly increased at day t1 in the I-group[median (interquartile range)]:2.9(1.3) vs NI-group[median (interquartile range)]: 1.3(1.5), P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01. The area under the curve for the prediction of infection was 0.72 [95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.63-0.81] for the absolute value of PCT; and for delta PCT:0.88 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.81-0.94), P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01. The optimal cut-off value was 0.79 ng/mL with the highest Youden index of 0.80 for delta-PCT to indicate infection. Neither absolute values nor changes in CRP, or WBC could predict infection better. The "delta" was considered as the changes in the absolute values (subtracting day t0 from day t1) of PCT, CRP, and WBC.This study suggest that early elevation of PCT within the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours of new onset infection, interpreted with clinical results, appears to be a promising indicator for the diagnosis of infections following LRC. labels: #Aged#Area Under Curve#Biomarkers#C-Reactive Protein#Calcitonin#Cystectomy#Early Diagnosis#Female#Humans#Kinetics#Laparoscopy#Leukocyte Count#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#Preoperative Period#Prospective Studies#Reference Values#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Urinary Diversion#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'The aim of this article is to investigate the expression of E-cadherin (E-cad) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) of Han and Uygur women patients in western China, and their relationship with clinical features of TNBC.Totally, 172 cases of Han TNBC patients and 79 cases of Uighur TNBC patients were enrolled. The expressions of E-cad and VEGF were detected with immunohistochemistry. The correlation of E-cad and VEGF expression with lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, and histological grade were analyzed. The 5-year disease-free survival rate of the 2 groups was also evaluated.There was no significant difference in the 5-year disease-free survival rate (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and the expression of E-cad between the 2 groups. The positive rate of VEGF in Han was significantly lower than that in Uygur (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The expression of E-cad was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, and histological grade (-1\xe2\x89\xa4r\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a1, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). However, the expression of VEGF was positively correlated with lymph node metastasis and TNM staging (0\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8ar\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a1, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.05), but not with histological grading.The expression of E-cad and VEGF and their relationship with clinical features of TNBC suggest that Uygur TNBC patients might have different prognostic factors as compared with Han patients. labels: #Adult#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cadherins#China#Disease-Free Survival#Ethnic Groups#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lymphatic Metastasis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Survival Rate#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'Paclitaxel has been shown to have clinical activity in the treatment of small cell lung cancer (SCLC). However, its role as third-line chemotherapy for SCLC after both etoposide- and camptothecin-based regimens has not been clarified.All patients with refractory SCLC who were treated with paclitaxel-based regimen as third-line chemotherapy between 2005 and 2011 in Seoul National University Bundang Hospital were reviewed retrospectively. Forty patients previously treated with both etoposide- and camptothecin-based chemotherapy were included.The median age of the enrolled patients was 67 years (range, 35-86 years). Most patients (77.5%) received cisplatin plus etoposide as first-line therapy, and camptothecins such as irinotecan or topotecan as second-line therapy. Of 34 patients with measurable lesions, 8 patients (23.5%) achieved partial response and 9 (26.5%) had stable disease. The median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were 2.5 and 5.9 months, respectively. Predictive factors for OS were performance status (PS) (PS<2 vs \xe2\x89\xa52; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), the presence of liver metastasis (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and number of metastatic sites (<3 vs \xe2\x89\xa53; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.047) in univariate analysis. PS and liver metastasis also remained statistically significant in multivariate analysis. Grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity was 20% for neutropenia, and 10% for thrombocytopenia. Other common non-hematological toxicities were peripheral neuropathy and mild liver enzyme elevation.Paclitaxel-based chemotherapy showed modest activity in SCLC patients refractory to both etoposide- and camptothecin-based chemotherapy. PS and presence of liver metastasis were predictive of survival after paclitaxel chemotherapy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Camptothecin#Cisplatin#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Etoposide#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Metastasis#Paclitaxel#Retrospective Studies#Small Cell Lung Carcinoma#Treatment Outcome'
b'The results of published studies about the relationships between folate intake and risk of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remained inconsistent. Hence, a comprehensive and dose-response meta-analysis was performed to clarify the association between folate intake and HNSCC risk.The electric searches of Pubmed, Medline, and EMBASE databases were performed to identify the studies examining the relationship between folate intake and HNSCC risk on April 5, 2017. According to the inclusion criteria, finally 9 studies were included in this meta-analysis. The pooled odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were used to evaluate the strength of associations. Dose-response analysis was conducted to quantitate the relationship between dietary folate intake and HNSCC risk.The pooled OR for assessing the risk of HNSCC and folate intake in the highest level versus lowest level was 0.505 (95% CI 0.387-0.623). The linearity model of dose-response analysis indicated that with increased 100\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/d folate intake, the risk of HNSCC decreased 4.3% degree (OR 0.957, 95% CI 0.935-0.980).These results indicate that folate is a protective nutrient against HNSCC carcinogenesis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Diet#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Eating#Female#Folic Acid#Folic Acid Deficiency#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Observational Studies as Topic#Odds Ratio#Risk Factors'
b'Several studies have pointed out a significant association between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and accelerated atherosclerosis. At the best of our knowledge, no such study has been carried out in a large Italian series and, in this study, we aimed to investigate the prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of cardiovascular events (CVEs), in patients consecutively admitted from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 to Rheumatology Units throughout the whole Italy.Centers members of GIRRCS (Gruppo Italiano di Ricerca in Reumatologia Clinica e Sperimentale) were invited to enrol patients consecutively admitted from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 and satisfying American College of Rheumatology/ European League Against Rheumatism criteria for RA and to investigate each of them for: traditional cardiovascular risk factors: sex, age, smoking habit, total cholesterol, triglycerides, glycaemia, high blood pressure, metabolic syndrome (MS), type 2 diabetes (T2D); RA features: disease duration as assessed from the first symptom, disease activity as evaluated by DAS28, radiographic damage as assessed by hands and feet x-ray, and previous joint surgery; prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of CVEs.Eight centers participated to the study. From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, the 1176 patients, who had been investigated for all the items, were enrolled in the study. They were mostly women (80.52%), with a median age of 60 years (range, 18-91 years), a median disease duration of 12 years (range, 0.8-25 years), seropositive in 69.21%. Nineteen percent were in remission; 17.51% presented low disease activity; 39.45% moderate disease activity; 22.61% high disease activity.Eighty-two patients (6.9%) had a history for CVEs (58 myocardial infarction, 38 heart failure, 10 ischemic transitory attack, and 7 stroke). This figure appears to be lower than that reported worldwide (8.5%). After excluding the 82 patients with a history of CV events, subclinical atherosclerosis was detected in 16% of our patients, (176 patients), a figure lower than that reported worldwide (32.7%) and in previous Italian studies.This is the first Italian multicenter study on subclinical and clinical atherosclerosis in patients with RA. We pointed out a low prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of CV events. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthritis, Rheumatoid#Atherosclerosis#Blood Glucose#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cholesterol#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Italy#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Triglycerides#Young Adult'
b'The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between falls and beat-to-beat blood pressure (BP) variability.Continuous noninvasive BP measurement is as accurate as invasive techniques. We evaluated beat-to-beat supine and standing BP variability (BPV) using time and frequency domain analysis from noninvasive continuous BP recordings.A total of 1218 older adults were selected. Continuous BP recordings obtained were analyzed to determine standard deviation (SD) and root mean square of real variability (RMSRV) for time domain BPV and fast-Fourier transform low frequency (LF), high frequency (HF), total power spectral density (PSD), and LF:HF ratio for frequency domain BPV.Comparisons were performed between 256 (21%) individuals with at least 1 fall in the past 12 months and nonfallers. Fallers were significantly older (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.007), more likely to be female (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.006), and required a longer time to complete the Timed-Up and Go test (TUG) and frailty walk test (P\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Standing systolic BPV (SBPV) was significantly lower in fallers compared to nonfallers (SBPV-SD, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.016; SBPV-RMSRV, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.033; SBPV-LF, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003; SBPV-total PSD, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). Nonfallers had significantly higher supine to standing ratio (SSR) for SBPV-SD, SBPV-RMSRV, and SBPV-total PSD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.017, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.013, and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.009). In multivariate analyses, standing BPV remained significantly lower in fallers compared to nonfallers after adjustment for age, sex, diabetes, frailty walk, and supine systolic BP. The reduction in frequency-domain SSR among fallers was attenuated by supine systolic BP, TUG, and frailty walk.In conclusion, reduced beat-to-beat BPV while standing is independently associated with increased risk of falls. Changes between supine and standing BPV are confounded by supine BP and walking speed. labels: #Accidental Falls#Aged#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Monitoring, Ambulatory#Cohort Studies#Female#Fourier Analysis#Heart Rate#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Malaysia#Male#Middle Aged#Posture#Risk Factors#Supine Position'
b'The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between Paraoxonase-1 (PON1) gene rs662, rs854555 polymorphisms and osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) in Han population, northern China.Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism was used to determine genotypes of PON1 polymorphisms in 84 patients with ONFH and 96 healthy persons. \xcf\x87 test was used to compare distribution differences of genotype, allele, and haplotype between the case and control groups. The odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated to reveal the effects of PON1 polymorphisms on risk of ONFH, and the results were adjusted using logistic regression analysis. The linkage disequilibrium and haplotype analysis were performed with haploview software.That people carrying AA genotype of rs662 were easier to be attacked by ONFH than GG genotype carriers (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.53, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.05-6.07, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). Meanwhile, the frequency of A allele in the case group was significantly higher than the controls and it was a risk factor for ONFH (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.56, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.03-2.38, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). The A-A haplotype frequency of rs854555-rs662 in PON1 was significantly correlated to the increased susceptibility to ONFH (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.74, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.28-5.84).The rs662 polymorphism in PON1 may be associated with ONFH susceptibility, but not rs854555 in Han population, northern China. Additionally, haplotype is also a nonignorable risk factor. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alleles#Aryldialkylphosphatase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Femur Head Necrosis#Gene Frequency#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length#Risk Factors'
b'We aimed to investigate the prognostic value of postpathological characters in nonmetastatic breast cancer (NMBC) patients who received preoperative radiotherapy (PRT) followed by mastectomy (MAST).We conducted retrospective analyses using the data collected from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program of the National Cancer Institute. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify prognostic factors. Disease-specific survival was calculated by the Kaplan-Meier curve and validated by log rank test. The discriminations of independent risk factors and staging systems were compared by the area under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) and validated by Harrell concordance index (bootstrapping algorithm). Akaike information criterion (AIC) was applied to compare the difference of model.One thousand three hundred fifty NMBC patients who had received PRT followed by MAST from 1988 to 2013 were included in the study. We found the metastatic lymph node ratio (mLNR) staging was a superior indicator than pN staging. Thus, we proposed a T-lymph node ratio (T-NR) staging system with simplified-T categories (T0-3 and T4) and the mLNR staging. The novel T-NR staging system provided larger AUC (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024, .008, respectively) and the smaller AIC (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) value than American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system.The novel T-NR staging system performed more accurate survival prediction and better model fitness for NMBC patients who receive PRT followed by MAST, it may provide a wide applicability in clinical decision-making. labels: #Algorithms#Breast Neoplasms#Clinical Decision-Making#Female#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Mastectomy#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#ROC Curve#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Retrospective Studies#SEER Program#Treatment Outcome'
b'Few reports have described the significance of viral respiratory infections (VRIs) in exacerbation of asthma in adult patients. The aim of this study was to elucidate the profiles of VRIs in adult patients with asthma along with their molecular epidemiology.A cross-sectional observational study was conducted at Kyorin University Hospital from August 2012 to May 2015. To identify respiratory pathogens in inpatients and outpatients suffering from asthma attacks, RT-PCR/sequencing/phylogenetic analysis methods were applied alongside conventional microbiological methods. Phylogenetic and pairwise distance analyses of 10 viruses were performed.A total of 106 asthma attack patients enrolled in this study in both inpatient (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a49) and outpatient (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a57) settings. The total 106 respiratory samples were obtained from nasopharyngeal swab (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a68) or sputum (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a38). Among these, patients with virus alone (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a39), virus and bacterial (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5), and bacterial alone (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5) were identified. The ratio of virus-positive patients in inpatient or outpatient to the total cases were 31.1% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) and 10.4% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a11), respectively. The frequency of virus-positive patients was significantly higher in inpatients (75.3%, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) than in outpatients (19.3%, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a11). Major VRIs included human rhinovirus (HRV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a24), human metapneumovirus (hMPV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a9), influenza virus (Inf-V) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a8), and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3) infections with seasonal variations. HRV-A and HRV-C were the most commonly detected viruses, with wide genetic divergence on phylogenetic analysis.Asthmatic exacerbations in adults are highly associated with VRIs such as HRV-A or HRV-C, hMPV, RSV, and Inf-V infections with seasonal variations and genetic divergence, but similar frequencies of VRIs occurred in asthma attack patients throughout the seasons. labels: #Adult#Aged#Asthma#Bacterial Infections#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Genotype#Humans#Inpatients#Japan#Male#Metapneumovirus#Middle Aged#Nasopharynx#Orthomyxoviridae#Outpatients#Phylogeny#RNA Viruses#Respiratory Syncytial Viruses#Respiratory Tract Infections#Rhinovirus#Seasons#Sputum#Virus Diseases'
b'BACKGROUND: Several previous studies were carried out on the association between xeroderma pigmentosum group G (XPG) gene polymorphisms (including rs873601 G>A, rs2094258 C>T, rs2296147 T>C, and rs751402 C>T) and the risk of gastric cancer in Chinese populations. However, their conclusions were not consistent. Therefore, this meta-analysis was performed by us to investigate the association between the 4 potentially functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of XPG gene and gastric cancer risk.METHODS: The eligible literatures were identified through PubMed, Embase, Ovid MEDLINE, Web of Science, CNKI, and Wan fang databases up to July 2017. Finally, 5 studies for rs873601, 7 studies for rs2094258, 4 studies for rs2296147, and 8 studies for rs751402 were used for the current meta-analysis.RESULTS: Of the 4 included SNPs, only rs751402 was showed to be associated with the risk of gastric cancer [C vs T, odds ratio (OR)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.16, 95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.04-1.29; CC\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aCT vs TT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.23, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.00-1.52; CC vs CT\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.15, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.05-1.27; CC vs TT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.35, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.06-1.72; CC vs CT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.13, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.02-1.25].CONCLUSION: The current meta-analysis demonstrated that the XPG gene polymorphism rs751402 was associated with increased susceptibility to gastric cancer in Chinese populations. However, studies with a larger number of subjects among different ethnic groups are needed to further validate the results. labels: #Adult#Aged#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#China#DNA-Binding Proteins#Endonucleases#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nuclear Proteins#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Stomach Neoplasms#Transcription Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Pravastatin has emerged for prevention and treatment of preeclampsia; no reports are available on pravastatin and HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets) syndrome.PATIENT CONCERNS: The first pregnancy necessitated termination of pregnancy at gestational age (GA) 20+5 for HELLP. Intrauterine fetal death at GA 22+5 occurred in the second pregnancy, whilst on temporizing management of HELLP.DIAGNOSES: Severe, recurrent early-onset HELLP syndrome.INTERVENTIONS: In her fourth pregnancy, pravastatin was commenced at GA 13.OUTCOMES: The course of pregnancy was uncomplicated, and a healthy, appropriate for gestational age fetus was delivered at term.LESSONS: Pravastatin may be effective in prevention of HELLP. The hepatic uptake may be of particular advantage. labels: #Adult#Female#Gestational Age#HELLP Syndrome#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Live Birth#Pravastatin#Pregnancy#Recurrence#Term Birth#Treatment Outcome'
b'In spinal fusion surgery, total blood loss (TBL) is composed of visible blood loss from the surgical field and wound drainage, and hidden blood loss (HBL). Until now, no published studies exist reporting the effect of topical use of tranexamic acid (tTXA) on HBL in patients undergoing posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. This study aimed to explore the effect of tTXA on HBL during primary posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. Between September 2014 and September 2016, 100 adult patients (age\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a18 years) with lumbar disc herniation or lumbar spinal stenosis undergoing primary posterior lumbar instrumented spinal fusions at 1 institution were divided into tTXA and control groups. The primary outcome was HBL. Secondary outcomes include TBL, intraoperative blood loss (IBL), postoperative blood loss (PBL), hemoglobin (HGB) levels on preoperative (Pre-op) and postoperatively (days 1-3, POD1, POD2, POD3, respectively), and amount of allogeneic blood transfusion. Complications occurring perioperatively until hospitalization discharge were also collected. In the tTXA group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a50 patients), wound surface was soaked with TXA (1\xe2\x80\x8ag in 100\xe2\x80\x8amL saline solution) for 5\xe2\x80\x8aminutes before wound closure. For the control group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a50 patients), wound surface was soaked with the same volume of normal saline. There were no significant differences in demographics, surgical traits between the 2 groups. There were no significant differences in IBL or perioperative blood transfusion requirements between the 2 groups. However, in the tTXA group, TBL, PBL, and HBL were significantly lower than those in the control group (550 \xc2\xb1 268 vs 833\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a298\xe2\x80\x8amL, 53.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a43.9 vs 136.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a87.9\xe2\x80\x8amL, 356.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a254.8 vs 501.1\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a216.9\xe2\x80\x8amL, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). HGB levels were significantly higher in the tTXA group (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) on POD1 and had a slower decline on POD2 and POD3 than the control group. No complications associated with TXA were observed. From these data, we conclude that tTXA can effectively reduce HBL, without significant complications in adult patients undergoing posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. labels: #Administration, Topical#Adult#Aged#Antifibrinolytic Agents#Blood Loss, Surgical#Blood Transfusion#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Hemorrhage#Retrospective Studies#Spinal Fusion#Tranexamic Acid#Treatment Outcome'
b'This study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of celecoxib 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours preoperative, 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour preoperative, and 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperative administration in patients with arthroscopic knee surgery (AKS).In all, 206 patients who underwent AKS were consecutively recruited and randomized into 3 groups: (1) early preoperative analgesia group (EPEA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours preoperative administration; (2) preoperative analgesia group (PEA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour preoperative administration; (3) postoperative analgesia group (POA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperative administration. Pain visual analog scale (VAS) scores (at rest and at 90 flexion) and patient global assessment (PGA) score were evaluated before and after operation, and also pethidine consumption and adverse events (AEs).The pain-rest VAS score, percentage of patients with moderate-severe pain at rest, and PGA score in the EPEA and PEA groups were decreased compared with POA group at 8 and 12\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperation. Besides, pain-flexion to 90 VAS score in EPEA and PEA groups were also reduced compared with POA group at 8\xe2\x80\x8ahours postsurgery. Interestingly, the percentage of patients with moderate-severe pain at 90 flexion at 8\xe2\x80\x8ahours postsurgery in PEA group was fewer compared with POA group, whereas at 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperation it was reduced in EPEA group compared with PEA and POA groups. As to consumption of pethidine, it was numerically decreased in EPEA and PEA groups compared with POA group. No difference between each 2 groups was found in AEs.Celecoxib was effective and safe as pre-emptive analgesia in AKS, and 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour administration before operation might be an optimal choice. labels: #Adult#Analgesia#Arthroscopy#Celecoxib#Cyclooxygenase 2 Inhibitors#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Knee Joint#Male#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Preoperative Period#Prospective Studies#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'PROPOSE: There are embryological origins, anatomical, histological, genetic, and immunological differences between right-sided colon cancer (RCC) and left-sided colon cancer (LCC). Many studies have sought to determine the survival and prognosis according to tumor location. This study aimed to analyze outcomes between RCC and LCC.MATERIAL AND METHOD: Between January 2000 and December 2012, data on 414 patients who underwent curative resection for RCC and LCC were retrieved from a retrospective database. Propensity score matching (1:1) was performed and RCC was identified in 207 and LCC in 207 patients.RESULTS: On average, RCC exhibited a more advanced N stage, increased tumor size, more frequently poorly differentiated tumors, more harvested lymph nodes, and more positivity of lymphovascular invasion than LCC. With a median follow-up of 66.7 months, the 5-year overall survival (OS) rates for RCC and LCC were 82.1% and 88.7%, respectively, (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) rates were 81.4% (RCC) and 88.3% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). In stage III cancers, the DFS rates were 61.1% (RCC) and 81.9% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), while the OS rates were 65.6% (RCC) and 78.6% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.056).CONCLUSION: On the basis of present data, LCC exhibited better survival outcomes than RCC after curative resection. Especially in stage III, LCC showed better oncologic outcomes. Proper specialized treatment related to the location of colon cancer is needed. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Colectomy#Colon#Colonic Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Propensity Score#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b'The 2016 American Thoracic Society and Infectious Diseases Society of America (ATS/IDSA) guidelines removed the concept of healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP). We examined whether the 2016\xe2\x80\x8aATS/IDSA guidelines are applicable in Korea.We conducted a retrospective, observational study of pneumonia patients who were hospitalized at a tertiary teaching hospital from March 2012 to February 2014. Identified pathogens that were not susceptible to \xce\xb2-lactams, macrolides, and fluoroquinolones were defined as community-acquired pneumonia drug-resistant pathogens (CAP-DRPs). We analyzed the risk factors for 28-day mortality and the occurrence rate of CAP-DRPs.Of the 1046 patients, 399 were classified with HCAP and 647 with CAP. HCAP patients were older and had more comorbidities than CAP patients. Initial pneumonia severity index (PSI) was higher in patients with HCAP than with CAP. HCAP was associated with not only an increased rate of CAP-DRPs (HCAP, 19.8%; CAP, 4.0%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) but also an increased rate of inappropriate initial antibiotic therapy (IIAT) (HCAP, 16.8%; CAP, 4.6%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). HCAP was also associated with an increased 28-day mortality rate compared with CAP (HCAP, 14.5%; CAP, 6.3%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). In a multivariable analysis, PSI was an independent risk factor for 28-day mortality in HCAP patients (odds ratio 1.02, 95% confidence interval 1.01-1.04). CAP-DRPs and IIAT were not associated with mortality.Patients with HCAP revealed higher rates of CAP-DRPs, IIAT, and mortality than patients with CAP. However, CAP-DRPs and IIAT were not associated with mortality. PSI was the main predictive factor for 28-day mortality in patients with HCAP. labels: #Aged#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Community-Acquired Infections#Cross Infection#Drug Resistance, Bacterial#Female#Hospital Mortality#Hospitals, Teaching#Humans#Inappropriate Prescribing#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Pneumonia#Prognosis#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Tertiary Care Centers'
b'RATIONALE: Intraluminal migration of a retained surgical sponge causing intestinal obstruction and fistula is extremely rare occurrence.PATIENT CONCERNS: A case of a 35-year-old male, who complaining a diffuse abdominal pain beginning three days earlier. He also complained of occasional vomiting, nonspecific abdominal pain, and an unintentional 15\xe2\x80\x8akg weight loss during the past 2 years. However, there were no clear findings in previous laboratory work. He had received an open appendectomy approximately 4 years earlier.DIAGNOSES: Retained surgical sponge.INTERVENTIONS: A contrast-enhanced CT of the abdomen showed a clear invagination of the small intestine. However, intraoperatively, we could not find an intestinal segment with intussusception. After the adhesive intestine was detached, a jejunal-ileal cross-linked fistula was found. More surprisingly, a retained surgical sponge was found inside the ileal fistula when the cross-linked fistula was detached.OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged 7 days after surgery.LESSONS: This is the first report showing an atypical image of a complete transmural migration of a retained surgical sponge mimicking intussusception. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Adult#Appendectomy#Diagnosis, Differential#Foreign Bodies#Foreign-Body Migration#Humans#Ileal Diseases#Ileum#Intestinal Fistula#Intestinal Obstruction#Intussusception#Male#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b"Nonspecific low back pain (LBP) is a common musculoskeletal problem that is intensified during physical activity. Patients with LBP have been reported to change their abdominal muscle activity during walking; however, the effects of pain intensity, disability level, and fear-avoidance belief on this relationship have not been evaluated. Thus, we compared abdominal muscle activity in patients with LBP and asymptomatic controls, and assessed the impact of pain intensity, disability level, and fear-avoidance belief.Thirty patients with LBP divided into groups reporting low (LLBP) and high-pain intensity low back pain (HLBP), and 15 participants without LBP were recruited. LBP patients' self-reported pain intensity, disability, and fear-avoidance belief were recorded. To examine abdominal muscle activity (rectus abdominis [RA], internal [IO], and external oblique [EO] muscles) during walking, all subjects walked at a self-selected speed. Abdominal muscle activity (RA, IO, and EO) was compared among groups (LLBP, HLBP, and controls) in different phases of walking (double support vs swing). Relationships between abdominal muscle activity and clinical measures (pain intensity, disability, fear-avoidance belief) were analyzed using partial correlation analysis.Right IO muscle activity during walking was significantly decreased in LLBP and HLBP compared with controls in certain walking phase. Partial correlation coefficients showed significant correlations between fear-avoidance belief and right EO activity (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.377, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and between disability index and left IO activity (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.377, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in patients with LBP. No significant difference was found in abdominal muscle activity in walking between patients with LLBP and HLBP (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05).This study demonstrated decreased IO muscle activity during certain walking phases in LLBP and HLBP compared with asymptomatic participants. Although altered IO muscle activity during walking was observed in patients with LBP, no changes were found with other abdominal muscles (EO, RA). Thus, these results provide useful information about abdominal muscle activity during walking in patients with LBP. labels: #Abdominal Muscles#Adult#Avoidance Learning#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Fear#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Muscle Contraction#Pain Measurement#Walking#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Gene alterations are crucial to the molecular pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer. The present study was designed to identify the potential candidate genes in the pancreatic carcinogenesis.METHODS: Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO) datasets of pancreatic cancer tissue were retrieval and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from individual microarray data were merged. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, and gene coexpression analysis were performed.RESULTS: Three GEO datasets, including 74 pancreatic cancer samples and 55 controls samples were selected. A total of 2325 DEGs were identified, including 1383 upregulated and 942 downregulated genes. The GO terms for molecular functions, biological processes, and cellular component were protein binding, small molecule metabolic process, and integral to membrane, respectively. The most significant pathway in KEGG analysis was metabolic pathways. PPI network analysis indicated that the significant hub genes including cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily E, polypeptide 1 (CYP2E1), mitogen-activated protein kinase 3 (MAPK3), and phospholipase C, gamma 1 (PLCG1). Gene coexpression network analysis identified 4 major modules, and the potassium channel tetramerization domain containing 10 (KCTD10), kin of IRRE like (KIRREL), dipeptidyl-peptidase 10 (DPP10), and unc-80 homolog (UNC80) were the hub gene of each modules, respectively.CONCLUSION: Our integrative analysis provides a comprehensive view of gene expression patterns associated with the pancreatic carcinogenesis. labels: #Carcinogenesis#Carrier Proteins#Case-Control Studies#Cytochrome P-450 CYP2E1#Databases, Genetic#Dipeptidyl-Peptidases and Tripeptidyl-Peptidases#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Gene Ontology#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 3#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Phospholipase C gamma#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Protein Interaction Maps#Signal Transduction'
b'Incidental cardiovascular findings are common and can be found in up to 70% of patients. Previously, several reports about incidental findings (IFs) on whole body computed tomography (CT) were published. However, no previous study investigated cardiovascular IFs in patients with unclear finding situation and trauma of unknown origin on whole body CT.The radiological database of 2 university hospitals was screened for patients with trauma of unknown origin and unclear finding situation investigated by whole body CT. The images were retrospectively analyzed by 2 radiologists in consensus. The findings were classified according to their clinical relevance. Clinically nonrelevant findings like valvular sclerosis, aortic sclerosis, or anatomic variants were excluded from this study. Moreover, the radiology reports were analyzed to assess initial reporting by the radiologist.Overall, we identified 60 patients with a mean age of 63 years. A total of 98 clinically relevant cardiovascular IFs (CRCIF) were identified in 60 (75%) patients (1.6 CRCIF per patient). The most prevalent finding was cardiomegaly in 23 patients, followed by coronary sclerosis in 21 patients and aortic ectasia in 11 patients; other findings were rarer. Sixty-one findings were reported (62.2%) and 37 were nonreported (37.8%). Thirty patients (50%) showed no traumatic event on whole body CT.CRCIFs are common in patients with unclear finding situation and trauma of unknown origin. Despite initial indication for trauma detection, the whole body CT should carefully be evaluated for CRCIF because of the high prevalence of clinically relevant findings. Notably, 37.76% of the findings were not reported by the radiologist. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiovascular Diseases#Female#Humans#Incidental Findings#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Whole Body Imaging#Wounds and Injuries#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Up to 40% of women gain excessive weight during pregnancy. Obesity complications and risks in parturient women undergoing cesarean section (CS) with different anesthetic methods remain unknown. This study aimed to assess the safety and risk of obese women undergoing CS delivery with various perioperative anesthetic methods.METHODS: Seven hundred ninety parturient women underwent CS under general anesthesia (GA), intraspinal anesthesia including epidural anesthesia (EA) and combined spinal-epidural anesthesia (CSEA). They were divided into morbid (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a255), severe (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a274), and non-obesity (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a261) groups. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (number NCT03002636).RESULT: Between 2013 and 2016, 790 pregnant were assessed. Compared with the non-obesity group, there were significantly more fetal distress and higher body mass index (BMI) in the morbid obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). Significantly more patients showed preeclampsia, multifetation, amniotic fluid abnormality, and high bleeding amounts in the morbid obesity group compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.048, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.017, and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.018, respectively); more patients were administered EA and GA compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, respectively). More post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) patients were found in the severe obesity group no more than the non-obesity group. Significantly increased anesthesia puncture times for 5\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8an\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x8a3 and n\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x8a5 were obtained in the morbid obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, respectively), with more patients in the puncture sitting position, compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001).CONCLUSION: GA, EA, and CSEA are safe and effective in severely or morbidly obese patients. Morbidly obese parturient show increased likelihood for fetal distress, PACU, sitting position puncture, puncture difficulty, and other pregnancy complications. There were more anesthesia puncture times in morbidly obese patients. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia#Anesthesia, Epidural#Anesthesia, General#Anesthesia, Spinal#Apgar Score#Body Mass Index#Cesarean Section#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Obesity, Morbid#Postoperative Complications#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Pregnancy Outcome#Prospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: The liver is the most frequent site of relapse of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). Surgery is always considered to be unsuitable because of the multiple metastases.PATIENT CONCERNS: In this report, we describe a case of large, multiple GIST liver metastases that were treated with percutaneous microwave ablation liver partition and portal vein embolization for planned hepatectomy (PALPP). A 44-year-old woman had undergone pancreaticoduodenectomy 4 years previously because of the diagnosis of a large duodenal GIST. Large, multiple liver metastases were observed 2 years later.DIAGNOSES: GIST liver metastasis was diagnosed using percutaneous ultrasound-guided biopsy.INTERVENTIONS: After 6 months of treatment with imatinib, the liver metastasis was stable. PALPP was performed because of insufficient future liver remnant (FLR) and right trisegmentectomy was successfully completed 10 days later.OUTCOMES: The patient has had no signs of local or systemic disease during 17 months of postsurgical follow-up.LESSONS: PALPP provides a new methodology for treatment of GIST liver metastasis in patients with insufficient FLR, and may have benefit in prolonging a durable remission. labels: #Adult#Catheter Ablation#Embolization, Therapeutic#Female#Gastrointestinal Neoplasms#Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors#Hepatectomy#Humans#Liver#Liver Neoplasms#Microwaves#Portal Vein'
b'RATIONALE: Although myocardial bridging (MB) is usually considered as benign, initial medical therapy and following surgical treatment in drug-refractory cases has been widely accepted for managing symptomatic MB. Before the patient proceeds to percutaneous or surgical intervention, however, the presence of objective ischemia in the corresponding myocardial territory should be documented.PATIENT CONCERN AND INTERVENTION: We herein report a 43-year-old male complaining of chest pain in whom cardiac CT with myocardial perfusion (cCTP) showed an MB of left anterior descending artery (LAD) with preoperative perfusion defect in corresponding myocardium and normalization of perfusion after supra-arterial myotomy.DIAGNOSIS: Myocardial bridging-induced ischemia.LESSONS: This case illustrates the potential utility of cCTP for the simultaneous assessment of MB and its hemodynamic significance for treatment planning and post-therapeutic evaluation although further research is needed to establish the clinical usefulness of this technique. labels: #Adult#Humans#Male#Myocardial Bridging#Myocardial Ischemia#Myocardial Perfusion Imaging'
b'This study aimed to investigate the association between sleeping pill use and hypertension or blood pressure (BP) via a cross-sectional analysis.A total of 11,225 subjects (5875 men and 5350 women) underwent health examinations. We compared the proportion of sleeping pill users among hypertension (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5099) and normotensive (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6126) participants. We analyzed participants with no intake of antihypertensive medication (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7788), comparing the proportions with high systolic BP (SBP) \xe2\x89\xa5140, high diastolic BP (DBP) \xe2\x89\xa590, and high pulse pressure (PP) \xe2\x89\xa550\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg across 3 subgroups. These groups were classified according to the sleeping pill use [nonuse group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6869); low-frequency-use group, defined as taking sleeping pills \xe2\x89\xa42 days per week (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a344); and high-frequency-use group, defined as taking sleeping pills \xe2\x89\xa53 days per week (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a575)].In the multivariable-adjusted model, odds of sleeping pill use (odds ratio (OR), 1.14; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) was significantly higher in the hypertensive group compared with the normotensive group. In participants with no intake of antihypertensive medication, odds of high SBP (OR, 0.65; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0005), high DBP (OR, 0.58; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.005), and high PP (OR, 0.77; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) were significantly lower in the high-frequency-use group compared with the nonuse group. Odds of high DBP (OR, 0.59; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) was significantly lower in the low-frequency-use group.Sleeping pills were more frequently required in hypertensive participants than in the normotensive ones. Sleeping pill use may decrease BP and assist in the treatment of high BP in patients with sleep disturbances. labels: #Aged#Antihypertensive Agents#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Monitoring, Ambulatory#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Sleep#Sleep Aids, Pharmaceutical#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: In total hip replacement (THR), it is essential to achieve a primary stability to guarantee good long-term results. A novel locking screw hip (LSH)-stem, anchored to the medial cortex of the proximal femur by 5 monocortical locking screws, was developed to overcome the shortcomings of uncemented press-fit and cemented straight stems while simultaneously achieving primary stability. The aim of this study was to investigate the biomechanical competence of the LSH-stem in comparison to an uncemented press-fit stem.METHODS: Six pairs of embalmed human cadaveric femora from donors aged 68 to 84 years were assigned to 2 study groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6) with equal number of right and left bones. The specimens in each group and pair were implanted with either an uncemented press-fit stem or an LSH-stem and tested biomechanically under progressively increasing cyclic axial loading until catastrophic failure. Axial construct stiffness, failure load, and cycles to failure were detected and statistically evaluated at a level of significance P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.05.RESULTS: Although the axial stiffness was comparable for both prosthesis types, the uncemented press-fit stem showed a significant lower stability in terms of failure load and cycles to failure in comparison to the LSH-stem, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04.CONCLUSION: Converting our results to percentage of bodyweight (BW) in an assumed adult patient of 80\xe2\x80\x8akg shows that the LSH-stem achieves a primary stability allowing to carry average loads of up to 507% BW, whereas the uncemented press-fit stem carried average loads of up to 404% BW. We conclude that both stems achieve a primary stability strong enough to carry hip joint loads experienced in the immediate rehabilitation period after THR. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Biomechanical Phenomena#Bone Screws#Cadaver#Femur#Humans#Joint Instability#Male#Prosthesis Design'
b'This study aimed to retrospectively investigate the factors related to pediatric obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children younger than 6 years and those older than 6 years.A total of 437 children who were hospitalized due to OSAHS between January 2014 and December 2014 were retrospectively reviewed. The children were further divided into OSAHS group and OSAHS + ADHD group. The general characteristics, OSA-18 quality of life, intention-hyperactivity score, and polysomnographic parameters (apnea-hypopnea index and the lowest oxygen saturation) were collected and compared between groups.There were 298 boys and 139 girls with the male to female ratio of 2.14:1. ADHD was found in 146 children including 105 boys and 41 girls with the male to female ratio of 2.56:1. Of these children, 31.62% and 35.46% had concomitant ADHD in children aged 4 to 5 years and those aged 6 to 11 years, respectively. In children aged 4 to 5 years, the incidence of allergic rhinitis was significantly higher (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.016) and the adenoid hypertrophy was more severe (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001) in those with concomitant ADHD. In children aged 6 to 11 years, the tonsil hypertrophy was more severe in those with concomitant ADHD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.019). In children with concomitant ADHD, OSA-18 score was higher than in those with OSAHS alone (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Higher frequency of respiratory events (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and more severe hypoxia (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were found in children with concomitant ADHD than in those with OSAHS alone.As high as 30% of OSAHS children have concomitant ADHD, and the incidence of ADHD in OSAHS children is increasing over age. Boys are more likely to develop OSAHS and incidence of ADHD in OSAHS boys is higher than in OSAHS girls. In addition, risk factors of ADHD also vary between age groups. The ADHD is related to the severity of allergic rhinitis and adenoid hypertrophy in children aged 4 to 5 years, and to the severity of tonsil hypertrophy in children aged 6 to 11 years. Hypoxia may be an important factor causing ADHD. OSAHS should be treated as early as possible to reduce the incidence of ADHD in children. labels: #Adenoids#Age Factors#Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Male#Palatine Tonsil#Pharyngeal Diseases#Polysomnography#Quality of Life#Retrospective Studies#Rhinitis, Allergic#Severity of Illness Index#Sex Factors#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive'
b'RATIONALE: Regorafenib is effective for metastatic colorectal cancer but its toxicity such as hemorrhage should be considered. The safety of regorafenib for the patient with the liver disease is not known.PATIENT CONCERNS: Seventy-one-year old man of colon cancer had myodesopsia and blood stool after 14 days from the initiation of regorafenib administration with 50% dose reduction due to liver dysfunction.DIAGNOSES: Fundus examination revealed hemorrhage of the retinal vein.INTERVENTIONS: Regorafenib treatment was discontinued and observational therapy was pursued.OUTCOMES: Retinal and gastrointestinal hemorrhage resolved in 1 week.LESSONS: Retinal hemorrhage should be considered as the differential diagnosis of myodesopsia in the patient treated by regorafenib. Safety and pharmacokinetic of continuous regorafenib administration for patients with liver dysfunction remains to be clarified. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Colorectal Neoplasms#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Humans#Liver Diseases#Male#Neoplasm Metastasis#Phenylurea Compounds#Pyridines#Retinal Hemorrhage'
b'To evaluate association of central blood pressure (BP) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in diabetic patients with hypertension.This was a cross-section study and 360 participants were enrolled. Baseline characteristics were collected and indices of central BP including central systolic/diastolic BP (SBP/DBP), augmentation index adjusted for 75 beats per minute of heart rate (AIx@75) were measured. Participants were separated into with and without CVD groups and between-group differences were assessed. Linear regression analysis was used to evaluate potential risk factors for increased AIx@75. Logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate association between central SBP and AIx@75 with CVD.Mean age was 50.6 years and male participants accounted for 57.8%. Thirty-five and 43 participants had coronary heart disease and ischemic stroke. Compared with participants without CVD, those with CVD were more likely to be male and smokers and had higher glycated hemoglobin level. Additionally, participants with CVD had significantly higher central SBP and AIx@75 compared with those without CVD. Ageing, male gender, and presence of coronary heart disease and ischemic stroke were associated with increased AIx@75, whereas renin-angiotensin-axis inhibitor was associated with reduced AIx@75. After adjusted for traditional risk factors including brachial SBP, both central SBP, and AIx@75 remained significantly associated with CVD, with odds ratio and 95% confidence interval of 1.09 (1.08-1.31) and 1.20 (1.15-1.42), respectively.Diabetic patients with hypertension, ageing, male gender, and presence of CVD are independent risk factors of central BP increase; and increased central SBP and AIx@75 are significantly associated with CVD. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Blood Pressure#Cardiovascular Diseases#China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Heart Rate#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Regression Analysis#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Smoking'
b'This study is to prospectively evaluate the efficiency of sonography for volvulus diagnosis in neonates with clinically suspected intestinal malrotation.A total of 83 patients with suspected intestinal malrotation who underwent detailed abdominal sonography and upper gastrointestinal contrast study were included. Malrotation was characterized by inversion of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and superior mesenteric vein (SMV) in sonographic examination. The "whirlpool sign" of Color Doppler Sonography was recognized as a characteristic for malrotation with volvulus. The degrees of rotation of the SMV winding around SMA were also detected by sonography. Surgery was performed in patients with sonography diagnosed malrotation.A total of 39 patients were sonographically diagnosed as malrotation which was subsequently confirmed by surgery. The sensitivity and positive predictive value of the sonographic diagnosis were both 100% (39/39). The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of "whirlpool sign" for the detection of midgut volvulus were 95.2% (20/21), 88.9% (16/18), and 92.3% (36/39), respectively. Greater degrees of rotation (equal or greater than 720\xc2\xb0) showed higher risk (odds ratio, 5.0; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) for intestinal necrosis occurrence.Sonography is more accurate in diagnosing suspected malrotation than upper gastrointestinal contrast study. Specific sonographic "whirlpool sign" related to volvulus may be used as a potential indicator for intestinal necrosis. In addition, sonography can exclude malrotation and may help the diagnosis of other diseases, such as annular pancreas and duodenal atresia. labels: #Digestive System Abnormalities#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Intestinal Volvulus#Male#Mesenteric Artery, Superior#Mesenteric Veins#Sensitivity and Specificity#Ultrasonography, Doppler, Color'
b"RATIONALE: Information on referred pain can be helpful for diagnosing diseases of the visceral organs. Here, the authors report a patient with cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) who had referred pain at the right side from the neck to shoulder, as a presentation of pulmonary embolism (PE).PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old man with complete tetraplegia, due to cervical SCI after C5 and C6 vertebral body fracture, complained of right neck-to-shoulder pain (numerical scale rating: 6). Despite pain medication (meloxicam 15\xe2\x80\x8amg, gabapentin 400\xe2\x80\x8amg, and propacetamol HCl 1\xe2\x80\x8ag), the pain was not reduced. Along with right neck-to-shoulder pain, he presented mild fever (37.8\xc2\xb0C) and mildly elevated respiratory rate (20\xe2\x80\x8abreaths/min). D-dimer level was also mildly elevated to 6.09\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL (normal value:\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.5\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL).DIAGNOSES: Computed tomography pulmonary angiography revealed PE in the right lower lobe pulmonary artery.INTERVENTIONS: For managing PE, rivaroxaban was administered for three days.OUTCOMES: After the administration of rivaroxaban, the patient's pain completely disappeared.LESSONS: This study shows that pain at the neck-to-shoulder area can occur following unexpected causes such as PE. Not limited to PE, the evaluation of diseases in the thoracic or abdominal organs is recommended if patients with cervical SCI present refractory pain in the dermatomes innervated by high cervical nerve roots. labels: #Cervical Cord#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neck Pain#Pulmonary Embolism#Shoulder Pain#Spinal Cord Injuries"
b'RATIONALE: Iridoschisis is a rare eye disease. In this case report, we described the examination and diagnosis of a case of iridoschisis accompanied by secondary glaucoma. We also observed the effects of treating the patient with a combination of goniosynechialysis and cataract removal.PATIENT CONCERN: A 67-year-old female patient presented with decreased vision in both eyes. An eye examination indicated that visual acuities (VAs) were 20/100 and light perception in the right and left eyes, respectively. Both eyes exhibited shallow anterior chambers and narrow angles. The lower portion of the iris was loosened, and cable-like tissue was visible. The intraocular pressures in the right and left eyes were 22 mmHg and 58 mmHg, respectively. At the time of presentation, no medication was being used.DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with iridoschisis [oculus sinister (OU), indicates left eye], secondary glaucoma (OU), senile cataract (OU), and pterygium (oculus uterque, indicates both eyes).INTERVENTION: After relevant examinations were conducted, goniosynechialysis and phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation were performed on the right eye under local anesthesia.OUTCOMES: Two days after surgery, the right eye had VA of 20/40 and a transparent cornea. The anterior chamber was deeper, and intraocular pressure had decreased to 16 mmHg. Three months after surgery, the patient exhibited improved VA in the right eye and a lower IOP of 11 mmHg.LESSONS: Relative to other approaches, goniosynechialysis combined with cataract removal is a better treatment option for iridoschisis complicated with closed-angle glaucoma triggered by peripheral anterior synechiae. labels: #Aged#Cataract#Cataract Extraction#Female#Glaucoma, Angle-Closure#Humans#Iris Diseases#Pterygium'
b'BACKGROUND: Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) instillation is widely used as an adjuvant therapy after transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) in patients with intermediate- and high-risk nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). However, the effective dose, duration, and strain of BCG have not yet been clearly determined. We aimed to elucidate the relationship between dose, duration, and strain of BCG and clinical outcomes in NMIBC patients treated with TURBT.METHODS: We conducted a literature search in Embase, Scopus, and PubMed databases for all relevant articles published up to October 2016 in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-analysis guidelines. The relative risks of clinical outcomes, including recurrence, progression, cancer-specific mortality, and all-cause mortality according to dose (standard vs low), duration (induction vs maintenance), and strain of BCG were presented as the pooled risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI).RESULTS: Nineteen studies meeting the inclusion criteria were finally selected in this meta-analysis. The risk of recurrence was significantly highly observed in case of low-dose BCG (RR, 1.17; 95% CI 1.06-1.30) and induction BCG (RR, 1.33; 95% CI 1.17-1.50) only group without heterogeneity among the included studies. Although there were no significant differences between dose or duration and other clinical outcomes. On direct comparison in each study comparing BCG strains, the Tice stain showed a relatively high probability of recurrence compared with the Connaught (RR, 1.29; 95% CI 1.01-1.64) and RIVM (RR, 2.04, 95% CI 1.28-3.25) strains. Funnel plot testing revealed no significant publication bias.CONCLUSION: The use of standard dose and maintenance BCG instillation may be effective to reduce recurrence rate after TURBT for NMIBC. Further large scale, well-designed, and prospective studies, with stratification of the patients into risk group at randomization, will be required to determine the optimal guideline of BCG use to improve clinical outcomes in NMIBC. labels: #Administration, Intravesical#BCG Vaccine#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Administration Schedule#Humans#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prospective Studies#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'RATIONALE: Central nervous system (CNS) involvement of graft versus host disease (GvHD) is a rare cause of CNS disorders after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Chronic CNS GvHD symptoms are heterogeneous and include cerebrovascular manifestations, demyelinating disease and immune-mediated encephalitis. CNS-Acute GvHD is not formally defined in literature.PATIENTS CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSES: We report 7 cases of CNS-GvHD among which two had histological-proven disease. We reviewed 32 additional cases of CNS GvHD published in literature since 1990. In this cohort, 34 patients were transplanted for hematologic malignancies, and 5 for non-malignant hematopoiesis disorders. Of these patients, 25 had a history of chronic GvHD and immunosuppressive treatment had been decreased or discontinued in 14 patients before neurological symptoms onset. Median neurological disorder onset was 385 days [7-7320]. Patients had stroke-like episodes (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7), lacunar syndromes (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3), multiple sclerosis-like presentations (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7), acute demyelinating encephalomyelitis-like symptoms (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a4), encephalitis (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a14), mass syndrome (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1), and 3 had non-specific symptoms. Median neurological symptoms onset was 81.5 days [7-1095]for patients without chronic GVHD history versus 549 days [11-7300] for patients with chronic GVHD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.001). Patients with early involvement of CNS after allo-HSCT and no chronic GVHD symptoms were more frequently suffering from encephalitis (64% versus 28%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.07), whereas stroke-like episodes and lacunar symptoms were less frequent (9% versus 36%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.13).INTERVENTIONS: 34 patients with CNS-GvHD were treated with immunosuppressive therapy, including corticosteroids for 31 of them. Other treatments were intravenous immunoglobulin, plasmapheresis, cyclophosphamide, calcineurin inhibitors, mycophenolic acid, methotrexate and etoposide.OUTCOMES: 27 patients achieved a response: 10 complete responses, 15 partial responses and 2 transient responses. Of 25 patients with sufficient follow-up, 7 were alive and 18 patients deceased after CNS-GvHD diagnosis.LESSONS: CNS-related GvHD is a rare cause of CNS disorders after allo-HSCT and is associated with a poor prognosis. labels: #Adult#Central Nervous System Diseases#Female#Graft vs Host Disease#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Male#Middle Aged'
b'RATIONALE: Choledochal cysts are a congenital disorder of the common bile duct that can cause progressive biliary obstruction and biliary cirrhosis. They were classified by Todani into five types. Of these, type VI choledochal cysts are rarely reported in the literature.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 22-month-old girl presented with intermittent epigastralgia for approximately 10 days and fever for three days. Fasting and total parenteral nutrition were administered after admission. However, sudden onset of severe epigastric pain occurred. An abdominal sonogram showed turbid ascites and peritonitis was impressed.DIAGNOSES: An emergent exploratory laparotomy was performed, and perforation of the posterior wall of types I and VI choledochal cysts was observed.INTERVENTIONS: Intraoperative cholangiography revealed concomitant types I and VI choledochal cysts with stricture of the distal common bile duct. Definite surgery for resection of the choledochal cysts and gallbladder was performed with Roux-en-Y choledochojejunostomy.OUTCOMES: The patient had no evidence of ascending cholangitis at three years after the operation.LESSONS: Type VI choledochal cysts are rarely reported in the literature. To our knowledge, this is the first reported pediatric case of concomitant types I and VI choledochal cysts complicated with acute pancreatitis and spontaneous perforation. labels: #Anastomosis, Roux-en-Y#Cholangiography#Choledochal Cyst#Choledochostomy#Female#Humans#Infant#Pancreatitis#Spontaneous Perforation'
b"RATIONALE: Hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) is caused by enterovirus. The virus may exist in secretions.PATIENT CONCERNS: Five neonates had symptoms of fever and maculopapular rashes involving face, trunk, breech, arms, and legs, especially scattering on palms and feet. Blood, oropharyngeal fluid, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were collected and detected for further diagnoses with the consent of the infants' parents. Some of them suffered aseptic meningitis.DIAGNOSES: They were diagnosed as HFMD with CSF enterovirus positive.INTERVENTIONS: All of them continued breastfeed. Water bag was used during the pyrogenic stage. Antibiotics were administrated at first and withdrawn as soon as possible.OUTCOMES: None of them developed into brainstem encephalitis or pulmonary edema and they all recovered well.LESSONS: HFMD is more common in neonates than it has been thought. Enterovirus may exist in neonatal CSF and cause CSF cell to increase similar to purulent meningitis. Medical history, physical examination, and CSF enterovirus detection are important in making correct diagnosis. Unlike bacterial infection, HFMD is a self-limited disease. Once HFMD is determined and bacterial infection is ruled out, antibiotics should be avoided. labels: #Breast Feeding#Female#Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male#Meningitis, Aseptic"
b"OBJECTIVE: Healthcare providers in emergency departments should wear respirators for infection protection. However, the wearer's vigorous movements during cardiopulmonary resuscitation may affect the protective performance of the respirator. Herein, we aimed to assess the effects of chest compressions (CCs) on the protective performance of respirators.METHODS: This crossover study evaluated 30 healthcare providers from 1 emergency department who performed CC with real-time feedback. The first, second, and third groups started with a cup-type, fold-type, and valve-type respirator, respectively, after which the respirators were randomized for each group. The fit factors were measured using a quantitative fit testing device before and during the CC in each experiment. The protection rate was defined as the proportion of respirators achieving a fit factor \xe2\x89\xa5100.RESULTS: The fold-type respirator had a significantly greater protection rate at baseline (100.0%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.0%) compared to the cup-type (73.6%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a39.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003) and valve-type respirators (87.5%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a30.3%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). During the CC, the fit factor values significantly decreased for the cup-type (44.9%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a42.8%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and valve-type respirators (59.5%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a41.7%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002), but not for the fold-type respirator (93.2%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a21.7%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.095).CONCLUSIONS: The protective performances of respirators may be influenced by CC. Healthcare providers should identify the respirator that provides the best fit for their intended tasks. labels: #Adult#Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation#Cross-Over Studies#Equipment Design#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Exposure#Prospective Studies#Respiratory Protective Devices#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Lipomas originated from fingers are rare and the dissection is necessary when the lipomas limit the finger movement or cause pain.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 57-year-old male was admitted to our department due to a painless swelling on the volar side of the middle finger of the right hand. The flexion movement of the distal interphalangeal joint was limited.DIAGNOSES: Imaging studies and open biopsy confirmed that it was a finger lipoma.INTERVENTIONS: An excisional biopsy was performed.OUTCOMES: The patient recovered completely after two weeks.LESSONS: Based on this case and literature we reviewed, ultrasound and MRI should be used to diagnose the finger lipoma and excision was the main treatment option. labels: #Fingers#Humans#Lipoma#Male#Middle Aged#Range of Motion, Articular'
b"BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) is considered a systemic disease with a primarily locoregional component. The accumulation of basic researches and clinical studies related to cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells has confirmed their safety and feasibility in treating BC. By searching the PubMed, Embase, CNKI, and Wanfang databases, we conducted a meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen (Exp) compared with chemotherapy (Con) alone regimen for breast carcinoma. Studies were pooled, and the relative risk (RR) and its corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated.METHODS: Eleven relevant articles were included in this meta-analysis. We observed that complete response (CR) (RR = 1.54, 95% CI: 1.09-2.19, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.994, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%), partial response (PR) (RR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.33, 95% CI: 1.11-1.59, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.802, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%) and overall response rate (ORR) (RR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.37, 95% CI: 1.20-1.57, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.619, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%) in BC patients treatment with DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen was improved than that with chemotherapy alone. There was no difference in the incidence of leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, hair loss, nausea/vomiting, hepatic complications, and neurologic complications in BC patient's treatment with DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen and with chemotherapy alone.RESULTS: Compared to chemotherapy alone, DC/CIK plus chemotherapy treatment significantly increased CR, PR, and ORR; however, there was no difference between the safeties.CONCLUSION: DC/CIK plus chemotherapy treatment may be a valuable new option for the treatment of breast carcinoma in women. The present study, therefore, provides valuable information to help physicians make treatment decisions for their patients with BC. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Clinical Trials as Topic#Combined Modality Therapy#Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells#Dendritic Cells#Female#Humans#Immunotherapy, Adoptive"
b'Is to measure the corneal epithelial thickness (CET) in a group of healthy Egyptian population and to investigate its variation with age and sex using spectral domain-anterior segment optical coherence tomography (SD-AS-OCT).This cross-sectional observational study includes 240 eyes of 120 healthy individuals (60 men, 60 women). Each gender was divided into 4 equal groups according to age as follows (18-29 years), (30-44 years), (45-59 years), and (60-80 years). The CET in 17 points over a corneal diameter of 6.0\xe2\x80\x8amm was measured in each subject by SD-AS-OCT. The regional thickness changes were compared in different age groups of each gender separately and the correlations between the CET, age, and gender were analyzed.The CET of the central cornea (2\xe2\x80\x8amm), the paracentral and the midperipheral zones (2-5 and 5-6\xe2\x80\x8amm, respectively) of all males and females groups demonstrates highly significant changes with age (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) with no significant difference between males and females. The measured parameters in the 2 age groups below 45 and above 45 years old revealed statistically significant difference with lower values in the elderly group (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001).The CET became thinner with age in the central, paracentral, and midperipheral zones in both genders and there is no difference between males and females. These findings could be valuable in refractive surgeries especially in age over 45. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cross-Sectional Studies#Egypt#Epithelium, Corneal#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Sex Factors#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult'
b"Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis (CPA) has recently been recognized as a significant global health burden. In China, the diagnosis of CPA is still unfamiliar to most doctors. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the clinical manifestations and diagnoses of CPA in China.A multidisciplinary team of doctors retrospectively screened 690 records of patients diagnosed with pulmonary aspergillosis from January 2000 to December 2016 at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing, China. Of these, 69 patients were diagnosed with CPA. The patients' clinical characteristics were then retrieved and analyzed. Demographic, laboratory, and radiological data for these patients were compared by CPA type.Of the 69 patients diagnosed with CPA, 10 patients were diagnosed with chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis (CCPA), 15 patients with semi-invasive aspergillosis (SAIA), 41 patients with simple aspergilloma, and 3 patients with Aspergillus nodule. Further, 53.3% of the SAIA patients were obviously immunocompromised, and 60% of the CCPA patients, 26.7% of the SAIA patients, 7.3% of the simple aspergilloma cases were mildly immunocompromised. Previous underlying lung abnormalities were observed in 20% of CCPA patients, 53.3% of SAIA patients, and 80.5% of simple aspergilloma patients. The most common symptoms in the CPA patients were cough (92.8%), hemoptysis (63.8%), chronic sputum (23.2%), and fever (17.4%). The most common computerized tomography abnormalities were cavities (94.2%), nodule (84.1%), consolidation (4.3%), pleural thickening (2.9%), and infiltration (2.9%). CCPA, SAIA and simple aspergilloma patients were significantly different with respect to their course before diagnosis, constitutional symptoms, fever, hemoptysis, breathlessness, white blood cell count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein count, presence of nodule, and presence of a solitary lesion (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Furthermore, SAIA patients had a significantly shorter course before diagnosis and a significantly higher white blood cell count compared with CCPA patients (both P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).In China, underlying systemic immunocompromising conditions and lung diseases with mechanical impediments contribute to CPA. Simple aspergillosis was the most common diagnosis in CPA patients. The imaging characteristics of simple aspergillosis and Aspergillus nodules were quite discriminable, while CCPA, and SAIA were similar in their clinical and radiological features. Distinguishing between CCPA and SAIA depends mainly on the physician's clinical judgment. labels: #Adult#Aged#C-Reactive Protein#China#Cough#Female#Hemoptysis#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Lung Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Retrospective Studies#Young Adult"
b'Several scoring systems are commonly used to evaluate severity in patients with traumatic injuries. However, there is no generally accepted standard scoring system to assess the severity of thoracic trauma, specifically in patients who have sustained severe injuries. The present study aimed to evaluate the validity of the trauma and injury severity score (TRISS) and the thorax trauma severity score (TTSS) as predictors of in-hospital mortality in patients with severe thoracic trauma.We conducted a retrospective, consecutive review of the medical records of patients with severe thoracic trauma who were managed at our institution between January 2005 and December 2015. Inclusion criteria were patients with severe thoracic injury (injury severity score\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a18) who required intensive care therapy and who had no local or systemic infection. We analyzed the association between the trauma severity scores (TTSS and TRISS) and in-hospital mortality in these patients. We also determined the predictive value of the scores using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves.A total of 228 patients with severe thoracic trauma were included in this study. The in-hospital mortality rate was 21.9%. There was a statistically significant association between the TRISS and in-hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but the association between the TTSS and in-hospital mortality was not statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.547). The ROC curve demonstrated adequate discrimination, as demonstrated by an area under the curve value of 0.787 for the TRISS. At a cut-off value of 25.9%, the TRISS had a sensitivity of 83.6% and specificity of 73.5% to predict in-hospital mortality.The present study demonstrated that the TRISS, but not the TTSS, can be used to predict in-hospital mortality in patients with severe thoracic trauma; hence, additional prospective studies are required. labels: #Aged#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#ROC Curve#Retrospective Studies#Thoracic Injuries#Trauma Severity Indices'
b'The clinical significance of measuring central arterial blood pressure has been recently discussed. Although the postprandial reduction in blood pressure is well known, postprandial changes in central blood pressure have not been intensively studied. The present study investigated differences in the reduction of central and peripheral arterial blood pressure after administration of an oral glucose load.An oral glucose tolerance test (75\xe2\x80\x8ag) was performed in 360 participants in our physical checkup program. Brachial and central systolic blood pressures were assessed before and after the glucose load. Central arterial blood pressure was measured noninvasively using an automated device.The mean age was 53.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.2 years. Both brachial (127.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a17.7 to 125.0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.3 mm Hg) and central arterial blood pressures were significantly decreased after an oral glucose load (118.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a17.9 to 112.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.8 mm Hg). The reduction in blood pressure was greater in central (7.3\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a11.5 mm Hg) than in brachial blood pressure measurements (3.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a11.3 mm Hg, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Extreme blood pressure reduction (>20 mm Hg) was recorded more frequently in central (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a43, 12.3%) than brachial blood pressure measurements (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a20, 5.6%).An oral glucose load decreases both central and brachial systolic blood pressure, with more pronounced effects on central blood pressure. Postprandial reductions in blood perfusion of the important organs such as the brain may be underestimated when postprandial BP reduction is assessed using brachial BP measurements. labels: #Adult#Arterial Pressure#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Determination#Brachial Artery#Female#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Male#Middle Aged'
b'Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) is an acute phase protein produced in hepatocytes. Its deficiency affects the lungs and liver. A case-control study was carried out to determine the prevalence of 2 common deficiency alleles, PI*S and PI*Z, for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) in both healthy and chronic obstructive pulmmonary disease (COPD)-affected Saudi populations and to clarify the importance of genetic tests in the screening of people at risk for COPD.One thousand blood samples from healthy individuals and 1000 from COPD-affected Saudi individuals were genotyped for the above-mentioned alleles, using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), with the exclusion of any other nationalities. Data were analyzed by determining the allele and genotype frequencies through gene counting and its confidence intervals. The allele frequencies, derived by the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium method, were analyzed by Pearson Chi-squared tests. The confidence intervals for genotype frequencies were calculated using exploratory software for confidence intervals.Of the 1000 COPD patients included in our study, the prevalence of PI*S and PI*Z was 21.8% and 7.7%, respectively, while within the 1000 normal samples, these alleles occurred in 8.9% of patients for PI*S and 1.6% for PI*Z. The AAT deficiency genotype frequencies (PI*ZZ, PI*SS, and PI*SZ) were 6.5 per 1000 and 87 per 1000 for normal and COPD-affected Saudi individuals.Our results indicated a high prevalence of AATD alleles in the normal Saudi population and an association between AAT deficiency and pulmonary disease development. Additionally, our research confirms the importance of genetic screening to achieve early and accurate diagnosis of AATD. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Alleles#Case-Control Studies#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Respiratory Function Tests#Saudi Arabia#Smoking#alpha 1-Antitrypsin#alpha 1-Antitrypsin Deficiency'
b'RATIONALE: Lymphomatoid granulomatosis is a very rare Epstein-Barr virus-driven lymphoproliferative disease. This disease has high mortality owing to its low incidence in conjunction with nonspecific presentations, which contribute to delays in diagnosis.PATIENT: An 87-year-old male had a week-long history of intermittent fever and general weakness. A chest radiograph showed multifocal patchy consolidations with nodular lesions.DIAGNOSES: Open lung biopsy using video-assisted thoracic surgery resulted in a diagnosis of grade III lymphomatoid granulomatosis. Three days after surgery, Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was identified from the culture of sputum samples collected at admission.INTERVENTION AND OUTCOMES: Antituberculous treatment was commenced first. However, after 34 days of antituberculosis medication, the patient died owing to aggravated lymphomatoid granulomatosis.LESSONS: This case highlights the fact that rare diseases should also be considered in differential diagnosis, particularly with a common presentation such as multiple lung nodules. Furthermore, a diagnosis of pulmonary lymphomatoid granulomatosis was made after open lung biopsy. To our knowledge, this is the first case of lymphomatoid granulomatosis coexisting with active tuberculosis in the Republic of Korea, where tuberculosis is endemic. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis#Male#Republic of Korea#Tuberculosis'
b'RATIONALE: Heptadactylia is a rare congenital disorder from the polydactyly family. Polydactyly is generally classified into 3 major groups: preaxial (medial ray), postaxial (lateral ray), and central polydactyly. Most common cases are related to preaxial or postaxial polydactyly. The rarity of central polydactyly can be explained in 3 ways. First, central polydactyly with duplication appearing on metatarsal is pretty uncommon. Second, the duplication appears isolated on the foot. Polydactyly is mostly associated with other physical defects or others duplications. Last, the duplication of the digital rays does not appear once but twice concerning all the digital rays and makes 7 functional toes appear. We describe this malformation with supporting iconography and radiography as well as its surgical management and functional results.PATIENT CONCERNS: We analyzed an original case of isolated heptadactylia on the foot of a 14-month-old girl. The supernumerary toes made it impossible for the child to wear standard shoes and her parents were worried about this problem.DIAGNOSES: Clinical foot examination and radiographs revealed the presence of 7 complete rays. Every toe was composed of phalanx and metatarsal ray. There was no other congenital deformity.INTERVENTIONS: Decision was made to resect the second and third rays (the two most misaligned toes in our consideration). The first stage of surgery was the ray resection and the second stage was the reconstruction of the intermetatarsal ligament to achieve a good functional and cosmetic results.OUTCOMES: After wound healing, the child was able to walk alone while wearing normal shoes.LESSONS: We demonstrated that treatment of foot polydactyly requires careful preoperative assessment, including radiographs and photography. A good clinical evaluation of the medial polydactyly improves type-specific recognition which may enhance the accuracy of surgical treatment. Polydactyly is frequently associated with other malformations. We recommend performing a general clinical examination to exclude concomitant malformations. We recommend surgical treatment around the onset of walking. labels: #Female#Humans#Infant#Polydactyly#Toes'
b"RATIONALE: Trans-sacral epiduroscopic laser decompression (SELD) is reported to have strong positive short-term effects in controlling lower back pain (LBP) or radicular leg pain following herniated lumbar disc (HLD). However, little is known about the possible complications following SELD.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 36-year-old man received SELD with YAG laser for controlling LBP and radicular pain due to HLD on L5-S1. However, after SELD, voiding and defecation difficulties and sensory deficits on the S3-5 dermatome were presented.DIAGNOSES: An areflexic neurogenic bladder was demonstrated by a urodynamic study four days after onset of sacral nerve root injury symptoms. In the electromyogram study, latency of electrically induced bulbocavernosus reflex (BCR) was delayed on both sides at four days after symptom onset. Based on the patient's symptoms and the results of the clinical evaluation, we diagnosed the patient as having an injury in the sacral nerve roots.INTERVENTIONS: The patient was observed without any specific medication.OUTCOMES: Three months after symptom onset, the patient's voiding and defecation difficulties were nearly completely recovered.LESSONS: In this study, we described a patient who showed neurogenic bladder and bowel and sensory deficits in the S3 to S5 dermatome due to sacral nerve root injury after SELD. During SELD, clinicians should be mindful of the possibility of injury to sacral nerve roots. labels: #Adult#Decompression, Surgical#Humans#Lasers, Solid-State#Male#Sacrum#Spinal Nerve Roots"
b'RATIONALE: Thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA) and red thrombus are suggested as a high-risk of embolic complications during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Intracoronary aspiration procedures occasionally result in either an insufficient thrombus removal or provide no significant effects on TCFA.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 76-year-old male underwent coronary angiography for chest pain.DIAGNOSES: Coronary angiography revealed a tight stenosis at the right coronary artery which resulted in treatment by PCI. Optical frequency domain imaging (OFDI) delineated a red thrombus with TCFA.INTERVENTIONS: To avoid embolic complications, excimer laser coronary angioplasty (ELCA) was applied with intracoronary aspiration before drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation.OUTCOMES: The red thrombus was vaporized by ELCA in an energy-intensity dependent manner and subsequently removed by intracoronary aspiration. The fibrous cap of TCFA was dissected with the material beneath the cap ablated by ELCA and extensively removed by intracoronary aspiration. DES implantation and postdilatation achieved an optimal result without flow compromise. This combined synergistic strategy of ELCA-aspiration-DES yielded a successful outcome.LESSONS: A synergistic embolus removal strategy combining ELCA, aspiration and DES implantation is a promising option for the treatment of high-risk plaque with potential embolic complications. labels: #Aged#Angioplasty, Laser#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Drug-Eluting Stents#Humans#Male#Percutaneous Coronary Intervention#Thrombosis'
b'BACKGROUND: T-helper 22 (Th22) cells are involved in host immunity against pathogen invasion and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. However, the roles of Th22 cells in acute gouty arthritis remain unclear.METHODS: A case-control study was employed to illustrate the clinical significance of Th22 cells in acute gouty arthritis. In this study, 27 patients with acute gouty arthritis, 22 patients with intercritical gout (IG), and 20 healthy controls were recruited, and peripheral blood cells and plasma were collected for the detection of Th22, Th17, and Th1 cells, and plasma interleukin (IL)-22.RESULTS: The relative and absolute numbers of Th22 and Th17 cells were significantly higher in patients with acute gouty arthritis than in patients with IG and healthy controls. Plasma IL-22 levels were consistently higher in patients with acute gouty arthritis than in patients with IG and healthy controls (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Th22 cell numbers were positively correlated with Th1 (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.648, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and Th17 (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.379, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) cell numbers in patients with gout. Moreover, Th22 cell numbers and plasma IL-22 levels were positively correlated with C-reactive protein levels (Th22: r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.444, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05; IL-22: r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.282, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that peripheral blood levels of Th22 cells increase during acute gouty arthritis suggesting a role for these cells in the pathophysiology of the disease. labels: #Adult#Arthritis, Gouty#Case-Control Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#Gout#Humans#Interleukins#Male#Middle Aged#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#Th1 Cells#Th17 Cells'
b'Obesity has become a serious social problem in industrialized countries in recent years. Clinically, although the evaluation of dietary behavior abnormalities is as important as any method of risk assessment for obesity, almost all the existing scales with many items may have numerous practical clinical difficulties. In this study, we aimed to prepare a short questionnaire to assess the dietary behavior abnormalities related to obesity. A total of 1032 individuals aged 20 to 59 years participated in the present study. Using item response theory (IRT), we selected the items for a short version from among 30 items of Sakata Eating Behavior Scale (EBS), which is widely used in Japan. As a result of the IRT-based analysis on the original 30-item version, 7 items were adopted as the short version. The correlation between the total score of the original EBS and the EBS short form was extremely high (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.93, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). In examining the criterion validity, for all participants (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1032), male (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a516), and female (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a516), the correlation coefficients between the total score of the EBS short form and body mass index (BMI) were r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.26, r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.28, and r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.28, respectively. The results of the receiver operating characteristic analysis was performed with obesity BMI\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a25\xe2\x80\x8akg/m as a dependent variable, the value of the area under the curve in the ROC was significantly higher in the 7-item version than in the total score of the original items (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0005). In conclusion, the 7-item EBS short form was created. Furthermore, it was found that the EBS short form is a reliable and valid measure that can be used as an indicator of obesity in both clinical and research settings. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Diet#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Japan#Male#Middle Aged#Obesity#Quality of Life#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'The majority of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) have electrocardiographic abnormalities, but the clinical significance of conduction disturbances remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate age-dependent cardiac conduction disturbances by electrocardiogram (ECG) to identify risks of complete atrioventricular (AV) block in this patient population.In total, 47 patients with DMD (age, \xe2\x89\xa520\xe2\x80\x8ays) who recorded ECGs at our hospital from July 2015 to June 2016 were included in this study. The PR interval and QRS duration in their previous ECGs were analyzed retrospectively. Associations between ECG findings and left ventricular (LV) systolic function obtained from the latest echocardiography were examined.The mean age of patients was 27.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a6.0 years, and the mean observation period was 9.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.7 years. The PR interval gradually increased with age, but no ECGs showed an abnormally prolonged PR interval. On the other hand, the QRS duration tended to increase progressively with age, and some patients had an abnormally prolonged QRS duration. The QRS duration was not correlated with LV systolic function (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.867). One patient who developed a complete AV block had a drastically prolonged QRS duration before the onset of the disorder.The QRS duration tended to increase progressively with age, irrespective of LV systolic function in patients with DMD. Attention should be paid to the QRS duration as an indicator of risk for complete AV block in older patients. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Cardiovascular Agents#Disease Progression#Echocardiography#Electrocardiography#Humans#Male#Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Ventricular Function, Left#Young Adult'
b'The present study compared the efficacy of gadolinium ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-EOB-DTPA)-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) in the estimation of hepatic fibrosis stages with histopathologic correlation.This retrospective study included 104 patients (87 men and 17 women; mean age, 60.6 \xc2\xb1 10.6 years) with chronic liver disease who underwent both Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI and MRE. The relative enhancement (RE) ratio of the liver parenchyma and the contrast enhancement index (CEI) were calculated as (SIpostliver\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aSIpreliver)/SIpreliver and SIpost/SIpre, respectively, where SIpost and SIpre were the liver-to-muscle signal intensity ratios on the hepatobiliary phase images and noncontrast-enhanced images, respectively. The liver stiffness values were measured using MRE stiffness maps. The diagnostic performance of MRE, RE ratios, and CEI values for hepatic fibrosis staging were compared.The distribution of fibrosis stages was as follows: F0, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3 (2.9%); F1, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12 (11.5%); F2, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17 (16.3%); F3, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a26 (25.0%); and F4, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a46 (44.2%). MRE, RE ratios, and CEI values correlated significantly with hepatic fibrosis (rs\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.79, -.35, -.25, respectively, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). MRE showed a significantly higher diagnostic performance than did RE ratios and CEI values for each fibrosis stage, except while distinguishing the F1 fibrosis stage (CEI, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.15). A cutoff value of RE ratio\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.89 can be used to identify patients with significant hepatic fibrosis, with positive predictive value, sensitivity, specificity, and negative predictive value of 93.2%, 61.8%, 73.3%, and 24.4%, respectively.Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI can potentially predict significant hepatic fibrosis. However, the diagnostic performance of MRE for hepatic fibrosis staging was superior to that of Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI. labels: #Aged#Contrast Media#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Gadolinium DTPA#Humans#Liver#Liver Cirrhosis#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: Rapid increases in desflurane concentration can transiently increase the heart rate (HR). Esmolol possesses a high \xce\xb21-adrenoceptor selectivity and a short duration of action. This preliminary study aimed at investigating the effects of esmolol on the HR and autonomic modulation during a desflurane-induced HR increase.METHODS: American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status I female subjects, aged 20 to 50 years, who were undergoing minor breast surgery were randomly assigned to 2 groups. Rapid increases in desflurane concentration were commenced after induction of anesthesia. Each subject received either i.v. saline (control group) or esmolol 0.5\xe2\x80\x8amg/kg (esmolol group) before desflurane inhalation. Using time-frequency spectral analysis of HR variability, the HR indices were studied at baseline, postinduction, posttreatment, as well as at minimal alveolar concentrations of desflurane reaching 1.0, 1.3, and 1.5. The low frequency (LF) power is influenced by both the sympathetic and parasympathetic activity, whereas the high frequency (HF) power reflects the parasympathetic activity. The LF/HF ratio is thought to reflect either sympathovagal balance or sympathetic modulation.RESULTS: Electrocardiograms for data analysis were obtained from 8 subjects in each group. Rapid increases in desflurane concentration after induction caused a HR increase. Both the corresponding LF and HF powers were low and the LF/HF ratio remained unchanged. This indicates that the desflurane-induced HR increase may be attributed to parasympathetic inhibition and may be independent of sympathetic activation. Esmolol pretreatment effectively attenuated desflurane-induced HR increase. Moreover, subjects receiving esmolol pretreatment had increased LF and HF powers, but did not have changes in their LF/HF ratios, as compared to those without esmolol.CONCLUSION: Esmolol pretreatment attenuates HR increase and parasympathetic inhibition during rapid increases in desflurane concentration. labels: #Adult#Anesthetics, Inhalation#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Isoflurane#Middle Aged#Parasympathetic Nervous System#Propanolamines#Prospective Studies#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: To assess the long-term prognostic value of F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) undergoing empiric radioiodine (RAI) therapy due to raising values of thyroglobulin (Tg).METHODS: Forty-nine patients with histological diagnosis of DTC (31 with papillary and 18 with follicular carcinoma) follow-up for a mean period of 7.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5 years after empiric RAI therapy were retrospectively analyzed.RESULTS: FDG-PET/CT was negative in 15 (30.6%) patients and positive in 34 (69.4%), whereas postradioiodine therapy whole body scan (t-WBS) was negative in 16 (32.7%) and positive in 33 (67.3%) patients. FDG-PET/CT and t-WBS were in agreement in 32 patients (7 both negative and 25 both positive); on the contrary, in 17 patients there was disagreement between FDG-PET/CT and t-WBS (P\xe2\x80\x8a=ns). At short-term follow-up, Tg normalized in 19 (38.8%) patients and was unchanged or increased in 30 (61.2%). Of the 15 patients with negative FDG-PET/CT, 11 (73.3%) showed Tg normalization, whereas of the 34 patients with positive FDG-PET/CT, only 8 (23.5%) had Tg normalization (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=8.9, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.005). At multivariate analysis, FDG-PET/CT and Tg normalization at short-term follow-up were independent predictors of disease-free survival (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=26.3, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001), while Tg normalization was the only variable associated with overall survival \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=7.2, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).CONCLUSION: FDG-PET/CT in association with Tg normalization at short-term follow-up may be useful for long-term prognostic stratification in DTC patients. labels: #Adult#Aged#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Humans#Iodine Radioisotopes#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Prognosis#Radiopharmaceuticals#Retrospective Studies#Thyroglobulin#Thyroid Neoplasms'
b'This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV) implantation in treating neovascular glaucoma (NVG) and to analyze the factors influencing the surgical success rate.This is a retrospective review of 40 eyes of 40 NVG patients who underwent AGV implantation at Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, China, between January 2014 and December 2016. Pre- and postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP), visual acuity, surgical success rate, medications, and complications were observed. Surgical success criteria were defined as IOP \xe2\x89\xa421 and>6 mm Hg with or without additional medications. Kaplan-Meier survival curves and Multivariate cox regression analysis were used to examine success rates and risk factors for surgical outcomes.The mean follow-up period was 8.88\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.12 months (range: 3-17). IOP declined at each visit postoperatively and it was statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). An average of 3.55\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.86 drugs was applied preoperatively, while an average of 0.64\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.90 drugs was used postoperatively, with the difference being of statistical significance (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The complete surgical success rate of 3, 6, and 12 months after the operation was 85%, 75%, and 65%, respectively. Meanwhile, the qualified success rate of 3, 6, and 12 months after the operation was 85%, 80%, and 77.5%, respectively. The multivariate cox regression analysis showed that age (hazard ratio: 3.717, 7.246; 95% confidence interval: 1.149-12.048, 1.349-38.461; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.028, .021) was influencing factors for complete success rate and qualified success rate among all NVG patients. Gender, previous operation history, primary disease, and preoperative IOP were found to be not significant.AGV implantation is an effective and safe surgical method to treat NVG. Age is an important factor influencing the surgical success rate. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#China#Female#Glaucoma Drainage Implants#Glaucoma, Neovascular#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Sex Factors#Visual Acuity'
b'Treating thoracic infective spondylodiscitis with anterior surgical approaches carry a relatively high risk of perioperative and postoperative complications. Posterior approaches have been reported to result in lower complication rates than anterior procedures, but more evidence is needed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of 1-stage posterior approaches for treating infectious thoracic spondylodiscitis.Preoperative and postoperative clinical data, of 18 patients who underwent 2 types of 1-stage posterior procedures, costotransversectomy and transforaminal thoracic interbody debridement and fusion and 7 patients who underwent anterior debridement and reconstruction with posterior instrumentation, were retrospectively assessed.The clinical outcomes of patients treated with 1-stage posterior approaches were generally good, with good infection control, back pain relief, kyphotic angle correction, and either partial or solid union for fusion status. Furthermore, they achieved shorter surgical time, fewer postoperative complications, and shorter hospital stay than the patients underwent anterior debridement with posterior instrumentation.The results suggested that treating thoracic spondylodiscitis with a single-stage posterior approach might prevent postoperative complications and avoid respiratory problems associated with anterior approaches. Single-stage posterior approaches would be recommended for thoracic spine infection, especially for patients with medical comorbidities. labels: #Central Nervous System Infections#Debridement#Discitis#Female#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Spinal Fusion#Thoracic Surgical Procedures#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b"Energy expenditure and ambient temperature (Ta) are intrinsically linked through changes in an animal's metabolic rate. While the nature of this relationship is stable, the breadth of change in thermoregulatory cost varies with body size and physiological acclimatization to season. To explore seasonal metabolic changes of small mammals, we studied a population of Eurasian red squirrels (Sciurus vulgaris) in a seminatural environment with a year-round supply of natural and supplemented food. In each season we measured the metabolic rate of wild-caught red squirrels, using open-flow respirometry, and hypothesized that individuals would make adjustments to contend with seasonal weather conditions. In comparison to summer animals, we predicted that winter squirrels would show (1) an increase in metabolic rate within the thermoneutral zone, (2) a decrease in the lower critical temperature of the thermoneutral zone, (3) a shallower slope of resting metabolic rate with decreasing Ta, and (4) lower thermal conductance. Surprisingly, we observed only minor changes in resting metabolic rate, and energetic modeling suggested that the scope of change was unlikely to be of ecological consequence. Hair area density was higher in winter than in summer, corresponding to a slightly elevated thermal conductance in summer, while body mass was reasonably constant year-round. We conclude that the scope of physiological seasonal adaptation is minimal when food is abundant and that squirrels instead rely on adjustments in activity to reduce exposure to low Ta. We suggest that this may explain the squirrel's success in a wide range of habitats, including urban areas, which require a rapid and flexible response to environmental changes and may indicate the capacity of other small mammal species to cope with environmental disturbance. labels: #Animals#Ecosystem#Energy Metabolism#Female#Food#Male#Sciuridae#Seasons"
b'Cyclic nigerosyl nigerose (CNN) is a cyclic tetrasaccharide that exhibits properties distinct from other conventional cyclodextrins. Herein, we demonstrate that treatment of B16 melanoma with CNN results in a dose-dependent decrease in melanin synthesis, even under conditions that stimulate melanin synthesis, without significant cytotoxity. The effects of CNN were prolonged for more than 27 days, and were gradually reversed following removal of CNN. Undigested CNN was found to accumulate within B16 cells at relatively high levels. Further, CNN showed a weak but significant direct inhibitory effect on the enzymatic activity of tyrosinase, suggesting one possible mechanism of hypopigmentation. While a slight reduction in tyrosinase expression was observed, tyrosinase expression was maintained at significant levels, processed into a mature form, and transported to late-stage melanosomes. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated that CNN treatment induced drastic morphological changes of Pmel17-positive and LAMP-1-positive organelles within B16 cells, suggesting that CNN is a potent organelle modulator. Colocalization of both tyrosinase-positive and LAMP-1-positive regions in CNN-treated cells indicated possible degradation of tyrosinase in LAMP-1-positive organelles; however, that possibility was ruled out by subsequent inhibition experiments. Taken together, this study opens a new paradigm of functional oligosaccharides, and offers CNN as a novel hypopigmenting molecule and organelle modulator. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Cell Line, Tumor#Cyclodextrins#Glucans#Glucosamine#Hypopigmentation#Immunohistochemistry#Lysosomes#Melanins#Melanoma, Experimental#Melanosomes#Mice#Monophenol Monooxygenase#Osmotic Pressure#Stress, Physiological'
b'The zooarchaeological research presented here investigates Neolithic and Chalcolithic (ca. 6500-5000 cal. BC) animal exploitation strategies at U\xc4\x9furlu H\xc3\xb6y\xc3\xbck on the Turkish island of G\xc3\xb6k\xc3\xa7eada in the northeastern Aegean Sea. Toward this end, we first discuss the results of our analysis of the zooarchaeological assemblages from U\xc4\x9furlu H\xc3\xb6y\xc3\xbck and then consider the data within a wider regional explanatory framework using a diachronic approach, comparing them with those from western and northwestern Anatolian sites. The first settlers of G\xc3\xb6k\xc3\xa7eada were farmers who introduced domestic sheep, goats, cattle and pigs to the island as early as 6500 years BC. Our results align well with recently published zooarchaeological data on the westward spread of domestic animals across Turkey and the Neolithization of southeast Europe. Using an island site as a case study, we independently confirm that the dispersal of early farming was a polynucleated and multidirectional phenomenon that did not sweep across the land, replace everything on its way, and deliver the same "Neolithic package" everywhere. Instead, this complex process generated a diversity of human-animal interactions. Thus, studying the dispersal of early farmers from southwest Asia into southeast Europe via Anatolia requires a rigorous methodological approach to develop a fine-resolution picture of the variability seen in human adaptations and dispersals within complex and rapidly changing environmental and cultural settings. For this, the whole spectrum of human-animal interactions must be fully documented for each sub-region of southwest Asia and the circum-Mediterranean. labels: #Animals#Animals, Domestic#Archaeology#Body Size#Cattle#Fossils#Geography#Goats#Islands#Phylogeny#Sheep#Species Specificity#Swine#Turkey'
b'RNA binding protein polypyrimidine tract binding protein 2 (Ptbp2) as a key alternative splicing regulator for male germ cell development is well established. However, its expression levels and role in cryptorchidism testes tissues has not been explored. Additionally, the molecular mechanism of heat stress impacts the correct proliferation and differentiation of germ cells is unclear. To investigate whether changes in Ptbp2 expression are correlated with heat stress-induced germ cell injury in testicular tissue, we used a murine model of intraperitoneal cryptorchidism with surgical operation. Here we present compelling evidence that germ cells are severely damaged in mice with unilateral cryptorchidism, with non-obstructive azoospermia. And the Ptbp2 and Pgk2 mRNA levels were significantly decreased in parallel, leading us to conclude that the negative correlation between Ptbp2 levels and germ cell injury in unilateral cryptorchidism murine model. We hypothesize that Ptbp2 is susceptible to heat stress and its disruption has resulted in stability decline of germ cell transcripts Pgk2 mRNA, which consequently lead to germ cell injury in cryptorchidism testes. Thus, we confirm that Ptbp2 is an essential factor in heat stress-induced sperm cell injury and non-obstructive azoospermia. labels: #Animals#Cell Count#Cryptorchidism#Disease Models, Animal#Epididymis#Immunohistochemistry#Isoenzymes#Male#Mice, Inbred ICR#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Organ Size#Phosphoglycerate Kinase#Polypyrimidine Tract-Binding Protein#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Spermatozoa#Testis'
b'BACKGROUND: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive and fatal disease. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) alters function and fate of various proteins via deacetylation of lysine residues, and is implicated in TGF-\xce\xb21-induced EMT (epithelial-mesenchymal transition). However, the role of HDAC6 in pulmonary fibrosis is unknown.METHODS: HDAC6 expression in IPF and control lungs was assessed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and immunoblots. Lung fibroblasts were treated with TGF-\xce\xb21 \xc2\xb1 HDAC6 inhibitors (Tubacin, Tubastatin, ACY1215, or MC1568), and fibrotic markers such as type I collagen were assessed using qRT-PCR and immunoblots. Mice were treated with bleomycin (oropharyngeal aspiration; single dose) \xc2\xb1 Tubastatin (intraperitoneally injection; daily for 21 days), and lung collagen expression was gauged using immunoblots and trichrome staining. In a separate experiment, HDAC6 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) mice were administered bleomycin, and lungs were evaluated in the same manner.RESULTS: HDAC6 expression was deregulated in IPF lungs. Among the HDAC6 inhibitors tested, only Tubastatin significantly repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced expression of type-1 collagen in lung fibroblasts, and this finding was coupled with decreased Akt phosphorylation and increased Akt-PHLPP (PH domain and Leucine rich repeat Protein Phosphatase) association. Tubastatin repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced S6K phosphorylation, HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression, and VEGF expression. Tubastatin also repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced inhibition of LC3B-II (a marker of autophagosome formation). In bleomycin-treated mouse lungs, HDAC6 expression was increased, and Tubastatin repressed type-1 collagen expression. However, in HDAC6 KO mice, bleomycin-induced type-1 collagen expression was not repressed compared to WT mice. Knockdown of HDAC6, as well as HDAC10, another potential Tubastatin target, did not inhibit TGF-\xce\xb21-induced collagen expression in lung fibroblasts.CONCLUSIONS: HDAC6 expression is altered during lung fibrogenesis. Tubastatin represses TGF-\xce\xb21-induced collagen expression, by diminishing Akt phosphorylation and regulating downstream targets such as HIF-1\xce\xb1-VEGF axis and autophagy. Tubastatin-treated WT mice are protected against bleomycin-induced fibrosis, but HDAC6 KO mice are not. Our data suggest that Tubastatin ameliorates pulmonary fibrosis, by targeting the TGF\xce\xb2-PI3K-Akt pathway, likely via an HDAC6-independent mechanism. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Autophagosomes#Autophagy#Bleomycin#Collagen Type I#Female#Fibroblasts#Histone Deacetylase 6#Histone Deacetylases#Humans#Hydroxamic Acids#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis#Indoles#Lung#Male#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Mice, Knockout#Middle Aged#Multiprotein Complexes#Nuclear Proteins#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Phosphoprotein Phosphatases#Phosphorylation#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#RNA, Messenger#Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases#Signal Transduction#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transforming Growth Factor beta#Tubulin#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'Camera trapping has become an increasingly widespread tool for wildlife ecologists, with large numbers of studies relying on photo capture rates or presence/absence information. It is increasingly clear that camera placement can directly impact this kind of data, yet these biases are poorly understood. We used a paired camera design to investigate the effect of small-scale habitat features on species richness estimates, and capture rate and detection probability of several mammal species in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, USA. Cameras were deployed at either log features or on game trails with a paired camera at a nearby random location. Overall capture rates were significantly higher at trail and log cameras compared to their paired random cameras, and some species showed capture rates as much as 9.7 times greater at feature-based cameras. We recorded more species at both log (17) and trail features (15) than at their paired control cameras (13 and 12 species, respectively), yet richness estimates were indistinguishable after 659 and 385 camera nights of survey effort, respectively. We detected significant increases (ranging from 11-33%) in detection probability for five species resulting from the presence of game trails. For six species detection probability was also influenced by the presence of a log feature. This bias was most pronounced for the three rodents investigated, where in all cases detection probability was substantially higher (24.9-38.2%) at log cameras. Our results indicate that small-scale factors, including the presence of game trails and other features, can have significant impacts on species detection when camera traps are employed. Significant biases may result if the presence and quality of these features are not documented and either incorporated into analytical procedures, or controlled for in study design. labels: #Animals#Animals, Wild#Bias#Biodiversity#Ecosystem#Models, Theoretical#Photography#Probability#Species Specificity'
b"BACKGROUND: Climate change affects human health. The respective consequences are predicted to increase in the future. Patients with chronic lung disease are particularly vulnerable to the involved environmental alterations. However, their subjective perception and reactions to these alterations remain unknown.METHODS: In this pilot study, we surveyed 172 adult patients who underwent pulmonary rehabilitation and 832 adult tourists without lung disease in the alpine region about their perception of being affected by climate change and their potential reaction to specific consequences. The patients' survey also contained the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) to rate the severity of symptoms.RESULTS: Most of the patients stated asthma (73.8%), COPD (9.3%) or both (11.0%) as underlying disease while 5.8% suffered from other chronic lung diseases. Patients and tourists feel equally affected by current climate change in general, while allergic subjects in both groups feel significantly more affected (p = 0.04). The severity of symptoms assessed by CAT correlates with the degree of feeling affected (p<0.01). The main disturbing consequences for patients are decreased air quality, increasing numbers of ticks and mosquitos and a rising risk for allergy and extreme weather events such as thunderstroms, while tourists are less disturbed by these factors. Increasing number of heat-days is of little concern to both groups.CONCLUSION: Overall patients are more sensitive to health-related consequences of climate change. Yet, the hazard of heat-days seems underestimated and awareness should be raised. labels: #Adult#Chronic Disease#Climate Change#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Perception#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Rhinitis, Allergic#Statistics, Nonparametric"
b'BACKGROUND: Finger opposition movements are the basis of many daily living activities and are essential in general for manipulating objects; an engineered glove quantitatively assessing motor performance during sequences of finger opposition movements has been shown to be useful to provide reliable measures of finger motor impairment, even subtle, in subjects affected by neurological diseases. However, the obtained behavioral parameters lack published reference values.OBJECTIVE: To determine mean values for different motor behavioral parameters describing the strategy adopted by healthy people in performing repeated sequences of finger opposition movements, examining associations with gender and age.METHODS: Normative values for finger motor performance parameters were obtained on a sample of 255 healthy volunteers executing sequences of finger-to-thumb opposition movements, stratified by gender and over a wide range of ages. Touch duration, inter-tapping interval, movement rate, correct sequences (%), movements in advance compared with a metronome (%) and inter-hand interval were assessed.RESULTS: Increasing age resulted in decreased movement speed, advance movements with respect to a cue, correctness of sequences, and bimanual coordination. No significant performance differences were found between male and female subjects except for the duration of the finger touch, the interval between two successive touches and their ratio.CONCLUSIONS: We report age- and gender-specific normal mean values and ranges for different parameters objectively describing the performance of finger opposition movement sequences, which may serve as useful references for clinicians to identify possible deficits in subjects affected by diseases altering fine hand motor skills. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Demography#Female#Fingers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Activity#Touch#Young Adult'
b'The effects of growth phase on the lipid content and surface properties of oleaginous microalgae Botryococcus sp. FACGB-762, Chlorella sp. XJ-445 and Desmodesmus bijugatus XJ-231 were investigated in this study. The results showed that throughout the growth phases, the lipid content of microalgae increased. The surface properties like particle size, the degree of hydrophobicity, and the total concentration of functional groups increased while net surface zeta potential decreased. The results suggested that the growth stage had significant influence not only on the lipid content but also on the surface characteristics. Moreover, the lipid content was significantly positively related to the concentration of hydroxyl functional groups in spite of algal strains or growth phases. These results provided a basis for further studies on the refinery process using oleaginous microalgae for biofuel production. labels: #Biomass#Chlorella#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Lipids#Microalgae#Particle Size#Potentiometry#Sample Size#Static Electricity#Surface Properties'
b'Postoperative epidural analgesia often needs rate readjustment using top-ups. Patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) is said to reduce the requirement of epidural top-ups when compared to continuous epidural analgesia (CEA). We compared CEA and PCEA in major thoracic and abdominal surgery, in a cohort study. The primary endpoint was the required number of epidural top-ups. Secondary endpoints were pain scores, side effects and workload differences. We analysed 199 patients with CEA and 187 with PCEA. Both groups had similar pain scores. The total number of top-ups was 75 in 57 patients (CEA) versus 20 top-ups in 18 patients (PCEA). (p = 0.0001) Sedation tended to occur more frequently in patients with CEA versus PCEA, 5.5% vs 1.6% (p = 0.05). Implementation of PCEA led to a decreased number of top-ups, fewer side-effects and decreased use of the postoperative care unit. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Epidural#Analgesia, Patient-Controlled#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthetics, Local#Bupivacaine#Female#Fentanyl#Humans#Male#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Postoperative Care#Postoperative Period#Thoracic Surgical Procedures'
b'INTRODUCTION: The potential impact of targeting different components of an adverse lipid profile in populations with multiple cardiovascular risk factors is not completely clear. This study aims to assess the association between different components of the standard lipid profile with all-cause mortality and hospitalization due to cardiovascular events in a high-risk population.METHODS: This prospective registry included high risk adults over 30 years old free of cardiovascular disease (2008-2012). Diagnosis of hypertension, dyslipidemia or diabetes mellitus was inclusion criterion. Lipid biomarkers were evaluated. Primary endpoints were all-cause mortality and hospital admission due to coronary heart disease or stroke. We estimated adjusted rate ratios (aRR), absolute risk differences and population attributable risk associated with adverse lipid profiles.RESULTS: 51,462 subjects were included with a mean age of 62.6 years (47.6% men). During an average follow-up of 3.2 years, 919 deaths, 1666 hospitalizations for coronary heart disease and 1510 hospitalizations for stroke were recorded. The parameters that showed an increased rate for total mortality, coronary heart disease and stroke hospitalization were, respectively, low HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.25, 1.29 and 1.23; high Total/HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.22, 1.38 and 1.25; and high Triglycerides/HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.21, 1.30, 1.09. The parameters that showed highest population attributable risk (%) were, respectively, low HDL-Cholesterol: 7.70, 11.42, 8.40; high Total/HDL-Cholesterol: 6.55, 12.47, 8.73; and high Triglycerides/HDL-Cholesterol: 8.94, 15.09, 6.92.CONCLUSIONS: In a population with cardiovascular risk factors, HDL-cholesterol, Total/HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides/HDL-cholesterol ratios were associated with a higher population attributable risk for cardiovascular disease compared to other common biomarkers. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cholesterol, HDL#Cholesterol, LDL#Coronary Disease#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Hypertension#Lipids#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Stroke#Triglycerides'
b'Odour-baited technologies are increasingly considered for effective monitoring of mosquito populations and for the evaluation of vector control interventions. The BG-Malaria trap (BGM), which is an upside-down variant of the widely used BG-Sentinel trap (BGS), has been demonstrated to be effective to sample the Brazilian malaria vector, Anopheles darlingi. We evaluated the BGM as an improved method for sampling the African malaria vectors, Anopheles arabiensis. Experiments were conducted inside a large semi-field cage to compare trapping efficiencies of BGM and BGS traps, both baited with the synthetic attractant, Ifakara blend, supplemented with CO2. We then compared BGMs baited with either of four synthetic mosquito lures, Ifakara blend, Mbita blend, BG-lure or CO2, and an unbaited BGM. Lastly, we compared BGMs baited with the Ifakara blend dispensed via either nylon strips, BG cartridges (attractant-infused microcapsules encased in cylindrical plastic cartridge) or BG sachets (attractant-infused microcapsules encased in plastic sachets). All tests were conducted between 6P.M. and 7A.M., with 200-600 laboratory-reared An. arabiensis released nightly in the test chamber. The median number of An. arabiensis caught by the BGM per night was 83, IQR:(73.5-97.75), demonstrating clear superiority over BGS (median catch = 32.5 (25.25-37.5)). Compared to unbaited controls, BGMs baited with Mbita blend caught most mosquitoes (45 (29.5-70.25)), followed by BGMs baited with CO2 (42.5 (27.5-64)), Ifakara blend (31 (9.25-41.25)) and BG lure (16 (4-22)). BGM caught 51 (29.5-72.25) mosquitoes/night, when the attractants were dispensed using BG-Cartridges, compared to BG-Sachet (29.5 (24.75-40.5)), and nylon strips (27 (19.25-38.25)), in all cases being significantly superior to unbaited controls (p<000.1). The findings demonstrate potential of the BGM as a sampling tool for African malaria vectors over the standard BGS trap. Its efficacy can be optimized by selecting appropriate odour baits and odour-dispensing systems. labels: #Animals#Anopheles#Insect Vectors#Malaria#Mosquito Control#Odorants'
b'The inflammatory and metabolic derangements of obesity in pregnant women generate an adverse intrauterine environment, increase pregnancy complications and adverse fetal outcomes and program the fetus for obesity and metabolic syndrome in later life. We hypothesized that epigenetic modifications in placenta including altered DNA methylation/hydroxymethylation may mediate these effects. Term placental villous tissue was collected following cesarean section from lean (prepregnancy BMI<25) or obese (BMI>30) women. Genomic DNA was isolated, methylated and hydroxymethylated DNA immunoprecipitated and hybridized to the NimbleGen 2.1M human DNA methylation array. Intermediate metabolites in placental tissues were measured by HPLC-ESI-MS, ascorbate levels by reverse phase HPLC and gene expression by RT-PCR. Differentially methylated and hydroxymethylated regions occurred across the genome, with a 21% increase in methylated but a 31% decrease in hydroxymethylated regions in obese vs lean groups. Whereas increased methylation and decreased methylation was evident around transcription start sites of multiple genes in the GH/CSH and PSG gene clusters on chromosomes 17 and 19 in other areas there was no relationship. Increased methylation was associated with decreased expression only for some genes in these clusters. Biological pathway analysis revealed the 262 genes which showed reciprocal differential methylation/ hydroxymethylation were enriched for pregnancy, immune response and cell adhesion-linked processes. We found a negative relationship for maternal BMI but a positive relationship for ascorbate with \xce\xb1-ketoglutarate a metabolite that regulates ten eleven translocase (TET) which mediates DNA methylation. We provide evidence for the obese maternal metabolic milieu being linked to an altered DNA methylome that may affect placental gene expression in relation to adverse outcomes. labels: #5-Methylcytosine#Adiposity#Body Mass Index#DNA Methylation#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Genome, Human#Humans#Metabolome#Multigene Family#Obesity#Placenta#Pregnancy#Thinness'
b'Thiamine is an essential enzyme cofactor required for proper metabolic function and maintenance of metabolism and energy production in the brain. In developed countries, thiamine deficiency (TD) is most often manifested following chronic alcohol consumption leading to impaired mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, inflammation and excitotoxicity. These biochemical lesions result in apoptotic cell death in both neurons and astrocytes. Comparable histological injuries in patients with hypoxia/ischemia and TD have been described in the thalamus and mammillary bodies, suggesting a congruency between the cellular responses to these stresses. Consistent with hypoxia/ischemia, TD stabilizes and activates Hypoxia Inducible Factor-1\xce\xb1 (HIF-1\xce\xb1) under physiological oxygen levels. However, the role of TD-induced HIF-1\xce\xb1 in neurological injury is currently unknown. Using Western blot analysis and RT-PCR, we have demonstrated that TD induces HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression and activity in primary mouse astrocytes. We observed a time-dependent increase in mRNA and protein expression of the pro-apoptotic and pro-inflammatory HIF-1\xce\xb1 target genes MCP1, BNIP3, Nix and Noxa during TD. We also observed apoptotic cell death in TD as demonstrated by PI/Annexin V staining, TUNEL assay, and Cell Death ELISA. Pharmacological inhibition of HIF-1\xce\xb1 activity using YC1 and thiamine repletion both reduced expression of pro-apoptotic HIF-1\xce\xb1 target genes and apoptotic cell death in TD. These results demonstrate that induction of HIF-1\xce\xb1 mediated transcriptional up-regulation of pro-apoptotic/inflammatory signaling contributes to astrocyte cell death during thiamine deficiency. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Astrocytes#Cells, Cultured#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Male#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Thiamine#Thiamine Deficiency#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease (SCD) impacts millions of individuals worldwide and more than 100,000 people in the United States. Leg ulcers are the most common cutaneous manifestation of SCD. The health status of individuals living with chronic leg ulcers is not only influenced by clinical manifestations such as pain duration and intensity, but also by psychosocial factors. Garnering insights into the psychosocial impact can provide a more holistic view of their influence on quality of life.METHODS: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with participants living with active SCD-associated leg ulcers or with a history of ulcers. Subjects were recruited from an ongoing study (INSIGHTS, Clin Trial.Gov NCT02156102) and consented to this qualitative phase of the study. Five areas were explored: leg ulcer pain, physical function, social-isolation, social relationships and religious support. Data was collected from 20 individuals during these interviews and a thematic analysis was performed and reported.RESULTS: Twenty participants with a mean age of 42.4 (SD \xc2\xb1 11.1years) were included in the study. Major themes identified included:1) pain (acute and chronic); 2) compromised physical function as demonstrated by decreased ability to walk, run, and play sports; 3) social isolation from activities either by others or self-induced as a means of avoiding certain emotions, such as embarrassment; 4) social relationships (family support and social network); 5) support and comfort through their religion or spirituality.CONCLUSIONS: SCD patients with leg ulcers expressed that they experience social isolation, intense and frequent ulcer pain, and difficulty in physical function. SCD-associated leg ulcers have been studied from a clinical approach, but the psychosocial factors investigated in this study informs how quality of life is impacted by the leg ulcers. labels: #Adult#Anemia, Sickle Cell#Female#Humans#Interview, Psychological#Leg Ulcer#Male#Middle Aged#Pain Measurement#Social Isolation'
b'An investigation of a questionable species of the genus Alseodaphne led to the discovery of a new genus Alseodaphnopsis H. W. Li&J. Li, gen. nov., separated from Alseodaphne Nees, and a new species Alseodaphnopsis ximengensis H. W. Li&J. Li, sp. nov., endemic to Yunnan province, China. This new species is characterized by having big, axillary, paniculate inflorescences, as well as large, subglobose fruits. Based on DNA sequence data from two gene regions (nuclear ribosomal ITS and LEAFY intron II), we investigate its phylogenetic position within the Persea group. Phylogenies using maximum parsimony (MP) and Bayesian inference (BI) support the recognition of Alseodaphnopsis as a distinct genus but do not resolve well its relationship within the Persea group. The new genus is circumscribed, eight new combinations for its species are made, and a description and illustration of the new species are provided. labels: #Base Sequence#Bayes Theorem#Databases, Genetic#Inflorescence#Introns#Lauraceae#Organ Size#Phylogeny'
b'Dinoflagellate species belonging to the genera Gambierdiscus and Fukuyoa produce ciguatoxins (CTXs), potent neurotoxins that concentrate in fish causing ciguatera fish poisoning (CFP) in humans. While the structures and toxicities of ciguatoxins isolated from fish in the Pacific and Caribbean are known, there are few data on the variation in toxicity between and among species of Gambierdiscus and Fukuyoa. Quantifying the differences in species-specific toxicity is especially important to developing an effective cell-based risk assessment strategy for CFP. This study analyzed the ciguatoxicity of 33 strains representing seven Gambierdiscus and one Fukuyoa species using a cell based Neuro-2a cytotoxicity assay. All strains were isolated from either the Caribbean or Gulf of Mexico. The average toxicity of each species was inversely proportional to growth rate, suggesting an evolutionary trade-off between an investment in growth versus the production of defensive compounds. While there is 2- to 27-fold variation in toxicity within species, there was a 1740-fold difference between the least and most toxic species. Consequently, production of CTX or CTX-like compounds is more dependent on the species present than on the random occurrence of high or low toxicity strains. Seven of the eight species tested (G. belizeanus, G. caribaeus, G. carolinianus, G. carpenteri, Gambierdiscus ribotype 2, G. silvae and F. ruetzleri) exhibited low toxicities, ranging from 0 to 24.5 fg CTX3C equivalents cell-1, relative to G. excentricus, which had a toxicity of 469 fg CTX3C eq. cell-1. Isolates of G. excentricus from other regions have shown similarly high toxicities. If the hypothesis that G. excentricus is the primary source of ciguatoxins in the Atlantic is confirmed, it should be possible to identify areas where CFP risk is greatest by monitoring only G. excentricus abundance using species-specific molecular assays. labels: #Analysis of Variance#Animals#Caribbean Region#Cell Line#Ciguatoxins#Dinoflagellida#Gulf of Mexico#Mice#Species Specificity#Toxicity Tests'
b'Proton therapy is a rapidly progressing field for cancer treatment. Globally, many proton therapy facilities are being commissioned or under construction. Secondary neutrons are an important issue during the commissioning process of a proton therapy facility. The purpose of this study is to model and validate scanning nozzles of proton therapy at Samsung Medical Center (SMC) by Monte Carlo simulation for beam commissioning. After the commissioning, a secondary neutron ambient dose from proton scanning nozzle (Gantry 1) was simulated and measured. This simulation was performed to evaluate beam properties such as percent depth dose curve, Bragg peak, and distal fall-off, so that they could be verified with measured data. Using the validated beam nozzle, the secondary neutron ambient dose was simulated and then compared with the measured ambient dose from Gantry 1. We calculated secondary neutron dose at several different points. We demonstrated the validity modeling a proton scanning nozzle system to evaluate various parameters using FLUKA. The measured secondary neutron ambient dose showed a similar tendency with the simulation result. This work will increase the knowledge necessary for the development of radiation safety technology in medical particle accelerators. labels: #Computer Simulation#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Monte Carlo Method#Neutrons#Proton Therapy#Protons#Radiotherapy Dosage#Reproducibility of Results'
b'Iron (Fe) deficiency is one of many conditions that can seriously damage crops. Low levels of photosynthesis can lead to the degradation of chlorophyll content and impaired respiration in affected plants, which together cause poor growth and reduce quality. Although ethylene plays an important role in responses to Fe deficiency, a limited number of studies have been carried out on ethylene response factor (ERFs) as components of plant regulation mechanisms. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the role of AtERF4 in plant responses to Fe deficiency. Results collected when Arabidopsis thaliana was grown under Fe deficient conditions as well as in the presence of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) revealed that leaf chlorosis did not occur over short timescales and that chloroplast structural integrity was retained. At the same time, expression of the chlorophyll degradation-related genes AtPAO and AtCLH1 was inhibited and net H+ root flux was amplified. Our results show that chlorophyll content was enhanced in the mutant erf4, while expression of the chlorophyll degradation gene AtCLH1 was reduced. Ferric reductase activity in roots was also significantly higher in the mutant than in wild type plants, while erf4 caused high levels of expression of the genes AtIRT1 and AtHA2 under Fe deficient conditions. We also utilized yeast one-hybrid technology in this study to determine that AtERF4 binds directly to the AtCLH1 and AtITR1 promoter. Observations show that transient over-expression of AtERF4 resulted in rapid chlorophyll degradation in the leaves of Nicotiana tabacum and the up-regulation of gene AtCLH1 expression. In summary, AtERF4 plays an important role as a negative regulator of Fe deficiency responses, we hypothesize that AtERF4 may exert a balancing effect on plants subject to nutrition stress. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Amino Acids, Cyclic#Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Chlorophyll#Ethylenes#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genes, Plant#Glycine#Iron#Models, Biological#Mutation#Phenotype#Plant Roots#Repressor Proteins'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Deficits in the ability to multitask contribute to gait abnormalities and falls in many at-risk populations. However, it is unclear whether older adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) also demonstrate impairments in multitasking. The purpose of this study was to compare multitasking performance in cognitively intact older adults with and without DM and explore its relationship to measures of gait and functional ability.METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of 40 individuals aged 60 and older with type 2 DM and a matched group of 40 cognitively intact older adults without DM. Multitasking was examined via the ambulatory Walking and Remembering Test (WART) and seated Pursuit Rotor Test (PRT). Self-selected normal and fast walking speed and stride length variability were quantitatively measured, and self-reported functional ability was assessed via the Late Life Function and Disability Index (LLFDI).RESULTS: Participants with DM walked slower and took more steps off path when multitasking during the WART. No between-group differences in multitasking performance were observed on the PRT. Multitasking performance demonstrated little correlation with gait and functional ability in either group.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Older adults with DM appear to perform poorly on an ambulatory measure of multitasking. However, we analyzed a relatively small, homogenous sample of older adults with and without type 2 DM and factors such as peripheral neuropathy and the use of multiple comparisons complicate interpretation of the data. Future research should explore the interactions between multitasking and safety, fall risk, and function in this vulnerable population. Clinicians should recognize that an array of factors may contribute to gait and physical dysfunction in older adults with type 2 diabetes, and be prepared to assess and intervene appropriately. labels: #Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Disability Evaluation#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Memory#Task Performance and Analysis'
b'We use a 575,000-subject, 28-day experiment to investigate monetary policy in a virtual setting. The experiment tests the effect of virtual currency endowments on player retention and virtual currency demand. An increase in endowments of a virtual currency should lower the demand for the currency in the short run. However, in the long run, we would expect money demand to rise in response to inflation in the virtual world. We test for this behavior in a virtual field experiment in the football management game Top11. 575,000 players were selected at random and allocated to different "shards" or versions of the world. The shards differed only in terms of the initial money endowment offered to new players. Money demand was observed for 28 days as players used real money to purchase additional virtual currency. The results indicate that player money purchases were significantly higher in the shards where higher endowments were given. This suggests that a positive change in the money supply in a virtual context leads to inflation and increased money demand, and does so much more quickly than in real-world economies. Differences between virtual and real currency behavior will become more interesting as virtual currency becomes a bigger part of the real economy. labels: #Behavior#Financial Management#Humans#Inflation, Economic#Internet#Research#User-Computer Interface'
b"Methylation of cytosine at the 5 position of the pyrimidine ring is the most prevalent and significant epigenetic modifications in mammalian DNA. The CpG methylation level shows a bimodal distribution but the bimodality can be overestimated due to the heterogeneity of per-base depth. Here, we developed an algorithm to eliminate the effect of per-base depth inhomogeneity on the bimodality and obtained a random CpG methylation distribution. By quantifying the deviation of the observed methylation distribution and the random one using the information formula, we find that in tetranucleotides 5'-N5CGN3-3' (N5, N3 = A, C, G or T), GCGN3 and CCGN3 show less apparent deviation than ACGN3 and TCGN3, indicating that GCGN3 and CCGN3 are less variant in their level of methylation. The methylation variation of N5CGN3 are conserved among different cells, tissues and species, implying common features in the mechanisms of methylation and demethylation, presumably mediated by DNMTs and TETs in mammalians, respectively. Sequence dependence of DNA methylation variation also relates to gene regulatory and promotes the reexamination of the role of DNA sequence in fundamental biological processes. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Brain#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 1#Conserved Sequence#CpG Islands#DNA Methylation#Humans#Mammals#Mice#Nucleotides#Organ Specificity#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Species Specificity"
b'BACKGROUND: Muscle atrophy has been explained by an anabolic resistance following food intake and an increase of dietary protein intake is recommended. To be optimal, a dietary protein has to be effective not only to initiate but also to prolong a muscle anabolic response in a catabolic state. To our knowledge, whether or not a dairy or a dairy/plant protein blend fulfills these criterions is unknown in a muscle wasting situation.OBJECTIVE: Our aim was, in a control and a catabolic state, to measure continuously muscle anabolism in term of intensity and duration in response to a meal containing casein (CAS), whey (WHEY) or a whey/ plant protein blend (BLEND) and to evaluate the best protein source to elicit the best post prandial anabolism according to the physio-pathological state.METHODS: Adult male Yucatan mini pigs were infused with U-13C-Phenylalanine and fed either CAS, WHEY or BLEND. A catabolic state was induced by a glucocorticoid treatment for 8 days (DEX). Muscle protein synthesis, proteolysis and balance were measured with the hind limb arterio-venous differences technique. Repeated time variance analysis were used to assess significant differences.RESULTS: In a catabolic situation, whey proteins were able to initiate muscle anabolism which remained transient in contrast to the stimulated muscle protein accretion with WHEY, CAS or BLEND in healthy conditions. Despite the same leucine intake compared to WHEY, BLEND did not restore a positive protein balance in DEX animals.CONCLUSIONS: Even with WHEY, the duration of the anabolic response was not optimal and has to be improved in a catabolic state. The use of BLEND remained of lower efficiency even at same leucine intake than whey. labels: #Anabolic Agents#Animals#Caseins#Eating#Glucocorticoids#Leucine#Metabolism#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Atrophy#Postprandial Period#Swine#Swine, Miniature#Vegetable Proteins#Whey'
b'One of the major players in the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia is disrupted homeostasis of glutamatergic neurotransmission, resulting in elevated extracellular glutamate (Glu) concentrations and excitotoxicity-related cell death. In the brain, Glu concentrations are regulated by Glu transporters, including Glu transporter-1 (GLT-1) and cystine/Glu antiporter (system xc-). Modulation of these transporters by administration of ceftriaxone (CEF, 200 mg/kg, i.p.) or N-acetylcysteine (NAC, 150 mg/kg, i.p.) for 5 days before focal cerebral ischemia may induce brain tolerance to ischemia by significantly limiting stroke-related damage and normalizing Glu concentrations. In the present study, focal cerebral ischemia was induced by 90-minute middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). We compared the effects of CEF and NAC pretreatment on Glu concentrations in extracellular fluid and cellular-specific expression of GLT-1 and xCT with the effects of two reference preconditioning methods, namely, ischemic preconditioning and chemical preconditioning in rats. Both CEF and NAC significantly reduced Glu levels in the frontal cortex and hippocampus during focal cerebral ischemia, and this decrease was comparable with the Glu level achieved with the reference preconditioning strategies. The results of immunofluorescence staining of GLT-1 and xCT on astrocytes, neurons and microglia accounted for the observed changes in extracellular Glu levels to a certain extent. Briefly, after MCAO, the expression of GLT-1 on astrocytes decreased, but pretreatment with CEF seemed to prevent this downregulation. In addition, every intervention used in this study seemed to reduce xCT expression on astrocytes and neurons. The results of this study indicate that modulation of Glu transporter expression may restore Glu homeostasis. Moreover, our results suggest that CEF and NAC may induce brain tolerance to ischemia by influencing GLT-1 and system xc- expression levels. These transporters are presumably good targets for the development of novel therapies for brain ischemia. labels: #Acetylcysteine#Amino Acid Transport Systems, Acidic#Animals#Astrocytes#Brain Ischemia#Ceftriaxone#Excitatory Amino Acid Transporter 2#Frontal Lobe#Gene Expression Regulation#Glutamic Acid#Hippocampus#Humans#Infarction, Middle Cerebral Artery#Rats#Synaptic Transmission'
b'For clinicians, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a nightmare pathogen that is one of the top three causes of opportunistic human infections. Therapy of P. aeruginosa infections is complicated due to its natural high intrinsic resistance to antibiotics. Active efflux and decreased uptake of drugs due to cell wall/membrane permeability appear to be important issues in the acquired antibiotic tolerance mechanisms. Bacterial cell wall biosynthesis enzymes have been shown to be essential for pathogenicity of Gram-negative bacteria. However, the role of these targets in virulence has not been identified in P. aeruginosa. Here, we report knockout (k.o) mutants of six cell wall biosynthesis targets (murA, PA4450; murD, PA4414; murF, PA4416; ppiB, PA1793; rmlA, PA5163; waaA, PA4988) in P. aeruginosa PAO1, and characterized these in order to find out whether these genes and their products contribute to pathogenicity and virulence of P. aeruginosa. Except waaA k.o, deletion of cell wall biosynthesis targets significantly reduced growth rate in minimal medium compared to the parent strain. The k.o mutants showed exciting changes in cell morphology and colonial architectures. Remarkably, \xce\x94murF cells became grossly enlarged. Moreover, the mutants were also attenuated in vivo in a mouse infection model except \xce\x94murF and \xce\x94waaA and proved to be more sensitive to macrophage-mediated killing than the wild-type strain. Interestingly, the deletion of the murA gene resulted in loss of virulence activity in mice, and the virulence was restored in a plant model by unknown mechanism. This study demonstrates that cell wall targets contribute significantly to intracellular survival, in vivo growth, and pathogenesis of P. aeruginosa. In conclusion, these findings establish a link between cell wall targets and virulence of P. aeruginosa and thus may lead to development of novel drugs for the treatment of P. aeruginosa infection. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Biosynthetic Pathways#Cell Wall#Colony Count, Microbial#DNA, Bacterial#Extracellular Space#Female#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Genes, Bacterial#Genetic Vectors#Lettuce#Lipopolysaccharides#Lung#Macrophages#Mice#Models, Biological#Mutation#Peptidoglycan#Plant Diseases#Pseudomonas Infections#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#Respiratory Tract Diseases#Virulence'
b'OBJECTIVES: To investigate the obstetric and psychological characteristics of women who opt to use epidural analgesia (EDA) during labour and the impact of participating in labour preparation courses on women\'s decisions to use EDA.DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study.SETTING: Akershus University Hospital, Norway.POPULATION: 2596 women with singleton pregnancies and intended vaginal delivery.METHODS: Data were collected using two self-completed questionnaires at pregnancy weeks 17 and 32. Fear of childbirth was assessed by the Wijma Delivery Expectancy Questionnaire (W-DEQ). Symptoms of anxiety were measured by the Hopkins Symptom Check List (SCL-25) and depression by the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS). Obstetric and socio-demographic information was retrieved from birth records at the maternity ward.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Preference for EDA was indicated by the questionnaire item "I would prefer an epidural regardless" on a 4-point scale (1 = highly agree, 4 = highly disagree) at pregnancy week 32.RESULTS: Twenty-one percent of the women (540/2596) answered that they would choose EDA as the only alternative method of analgesia during labour. Counselling for fear of childbirth [OR 3.23 (95%CI 2.12; 4.92)] and W-DEQ sum score \xe2\x89\xa5 85 [OR 2.95 (95%CI 2.06; 4.23)]were significantly (p<0.001) associated with choice of EDA. Participation in labour preparation courses was significantly (p = 0.008) associated with a reduction of intended use of EDA during labour [OR 0.67 (95%CI 0.49; 0.90)].CONCLUSION: Fear of childbirth is significantly associated with women\'s choice of EDA during labour. On the other hand, women that participate in labour preparation courses would rather consider other methods of analgesia during labour. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Epidural#Cohort Studies#Confidence Intervals#Delivery, Obstetric#Female#Humans#Labor, Obstetric#Mental Health#Odds Ratio#Parity#Pregnancy'
b"Prior studies showed that scientists' professional networks contribute to research productivity, but little work has examined what factors predict the formation of professional networks. This study sought to 1) examine what factors predict the formation of international ties between faculty and graduate students and 2) identify how these international ties would affect publication productivity in three East Asian countries. Face-to-face surveys and in-depth semi-structured interviews were conducted with a sample of faculty and doctoral students in life sciences at 10 research institutions in Japan, Singapore, and Taiwan. Our final sample consisted of 290 respondents (84 faculty and 206 doctoral students) and 1,435 network members. We used egocentric social network analysis to examine the structure of international ties and how they relate to research productivity. Our findings suggest that overseas graduate training can be a key factor in graduate students' development of international ties in these countries. Those with a higher proportion of international ties in their professional networks were likely to have published more papers and written more manuscripts. For faculty, international ties did not affect the number of manuscripts written or of papers published, but did correlate with an increase in publishing in top journals. The networks we examined were identified by asking study participants with whom they discuss their research. Because the relationships may not appear in explicit co-authorship networks, these networks were not officially recorded elsewhere. This study sheds light on the relationships of these invisible support networks to researcher productivity. labels: #Adult#Aged#Biological Science Disciplines#Efficiency#Faculty#Female#Humans#Internationality#Japan#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multilevel Analysis#Research Personnel#Singapore#Social Support#Students#Taiwan#Young Adult"
b'The mechanism of action of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) is mainly attributed to the inhibition of the deacetylase catalytic activity for their histone substrates. In this study, we analyzed the abundance of class I HDACs in the cytosolic, nuclear soluble and chromatin bound cellular fractions in breast cancer cells after HDACi treatment. We found that potent N-hydroxy propenamide-based HDACi induced a concentration dependent decrease in the HDAC1 associated with chromatin and a lasting concomitant increase in cytoplasmic HDAC1 while maintaining total protein expression. No such change occurred with HDAC2 or 8, however, an increase in cytoplasmic non-phosphorylated HDAC3 was also observed. The subcellular re-equilibration of HDAC1 was subsequent to the accumulation of acetylated histones and might be cell cycle dependent. This study suggests that the biological activity of a subset of N-hydroxy propenamide-based HDACi may stem from direct competition with histone substrates of HDACs as well as from spatial separation from their substrates in the nucleus and/or change in post-translational modification status of HDACs. labels: #Acetylation#Cytosol#Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors#Histone Deacetylases#Histones#Humans#MCF-7 Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Mitogens#Models, Biological#Phosphorylation#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Protein Transport#Subcellular Fractions'
b'Objectives: Determine performance of the cobas human papillomavirus (HPV) test for triage of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) in SurePath.Methods: Women presenting for routine screening had cervical specimens collected in SurePath and specimen transport medium (STM); those with ASC-US cytology underwent colposcopy. Performance of cobas HPV in SurePath specimens that had undergone a preanalytic procedure to reverse possible cross-linking of HPV DNA was compared with Hybrid Capture 2 (hc2) specimens in STM.Results: Among 856 women, HPV prevalence was 45.8%; HPV 16 and HPV 18 prevalences were lower than expected in the 21- to 29-year-old group in this highly vaccinated population. cobas HPV performance in SurePath was comparable to hc2 in STM. Sensitivity and specificity for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or worse were 87.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 71.9%-95.2%) and 55.5% (95% CI, 52.1%-58.9%) for cobas and 85.3% (95% CI, 69.9%-93.6%) and 54.7% (95% CI, 51.4%-57.9%) for hc2. Sensitivity was negatively affected by random biopsies performed at colposcopy; comparable sensitivities were achieved in the nonvaccinated and vaccinated populations with disease determined by directed biopsy only.Conclusions: Performance of cobas HPV for ASC-US triage in pretreated SurePath specimens meets criteria for validation. Preliminary data indicate reliable performance of HPV testing in a highly vaccinated population. labels: #Adult#Atypical Squamous Cells of the Cervix#Cytodiagnosis#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Papillomaviridae#Papillomavirus Infections#Prevalence#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tissue Fixation#Triage#Young Adult'
b'Development of a universal influenza vaccine is a research priority for the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) at the National Institutes of Health. To facilitate this goal, we convened a workshop in Rockville, Maryland to identify knowledge gaps in influenza research and develop strategies to fill them. labels: #Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Ferrets#Humans#Influenza A virus#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human#National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (U.S.)#United States'
b'Distinct molecular pathways govern the differentiation of CD8+effector T\xc2\xa0cells into memory or exhausted T\xc2\xa0cells during acute and chronic viral infection, but these are not well studied in humans. Here, we employed an integrative systems immunology approach to identify transcriptional commonalities and differences between virus-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cells from patients with persistent and spontaneously resolving hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection during the acute phase. We observed dysregulation of metabolic processes during early persistent infection that was linked to changes in expression of genes related to nucleosomal regulation of transcription, T\xc2\xa0cell differentiation, and the inflammatory response and correlated with subject age, sex, and the presence of HCV-specific CD4+T\xc2\xa0cell populations. These early changes in HCV-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cell transcription preceded the overt establishment of T\xc2\xa0cell exhaustion, making this signature a prime target in the search for the regulatory origins of T\xc2\xa0cell dysfunction in chronic viral infection. labels: #Acute Disease#Adaptive Immunity#Adult#Aged#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cluster Analysis#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Variation#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Time Factors#Transcription, Genetic#Young Adult'
b'In the Drosophila immune response, bacterial derived diaminopimelic acid-type peptidoglycan binds the receptors PGRP-LC and PGRP-LE, which through interaction with the adaptor protein Imd leads to activation of the NF-\xce\xbaB homolog Relish and robust antimicrobial peptide gene expression. PGRP-LC, PGRP-LE, and Imd each contain a motif with some resemblance to the RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif (RHIM), a domain found in mammalian RIPK proteins forming functional amyloids during necroptosis. Here we found that despite sequence divergence, these Drosophila cryptic RHIMs formed amyloid fibrils in\xc2\xa0vitro and in cells. Amyloid formation was required for signaling downstream of Imd, and in contrast to the mammalian RHIMs, was not associated with cell death. Furthermore, amyloid formation constituted a regulatable step and could be inhibited by Pirk, an endogenous feedback regulator of this pathway. Thus, diverse sequence motifs are capable of forming amyloidal signaling platforms, and the formation of these platforms may present a regulatory point in multiple biological processes. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Amyloid#Animals#Binding Sites#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Female#Gene Expression#Male#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Immunological#Mutation#NF-kappa B#Receptor-Interacting Protein Serine-Threonine Kinases#Receptors, Cell Surface#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Signal Transduction'
b'The classical model of hematopoiesis established in the mouse postulates that lymphoid cells originate from a founder population of common lymphoid progenitors. Here, using a modeling approach in humanized mice, we showed that human lymphoid development stemmed from distinct populations of CD127-and CD127+early lymphoid progenitors (ELPs). Combining molecular analyses with in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo functional assays, we demonstrated that CD127-and CD127+ELPs emerged independently from lympho-mono-dendritic progenitors, responded differently to Notch1 signals, underwent divergent modes of lineage restriction, and displayed both common and specific differentiation potentials. Whereas CD127-ELPs comprised precursors of T\xc2\xa0cells, marginal zone B\xc2\xa0cells, and natural killer (NK) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), CD127+ELPs supported production of all NK cell, ILC, and B cell populations but lacked T potential. On the basis of these results, we propose a "two-family" model of human lymphoid development that differs from the prevailing model of hematopoiesis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#B-Lymphocytes#Cell Differentiation#Cell Lineage#Cells, Cultured#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Interleukin Receptor Common gamma Subunit#Interleukin-7 Receptor alpha Subunit#Killer Cells, Natural#Lymphoid Progenitor Cells#Lymphopoiesis#Male#Mice, Inbred NOD#Mice, Knockout#Mice, SCID#Middle Aged#Stem Cell Transplantation#T-Lymphocytes#Transplantation, Heterologous#Young Adult'
b'A heterogeneous mixture of lipids called oxPAPC, derived from dying cells, can hyperactivate dendritic cells (DCs) but not macrophages. Hyperactive DCs are defined by their ability to release interleukin-1 (IL-1) while maintaining cell viability, endowing these cells with potent aptitude to stimulate adaptive immunity. Herein, we found that the bacterial lipopolysaccharide receptor CD14 captured extracellular oxPAPC and delivered these lipids into the cell to promote inflammasome-dependent DC hyperactivation. Notably, we identified two specific components within the oxPAPC mixture that hyperactivated macrophages, allowing these cells to release IL-1 for several days, by a CD14-dependent process. In murine models of sepsis, conditions that promoted cell hyperactivation resulted in inflammation but not lethality. Thus, multiple phagocytes are capable of hyperactivation in response to oxPAPC, with CD14 acting as the earliest regulator in this process, serving to capture and transport these lipids to promote inflammatory cell fate decisions. labels: #Adaptive Immunity#Animals#Blotting, Western#Cell Line#Cell Survival#Dendritic Cells#Endocytosis#Female#Flow Cytometry#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inflammasomes#Interleukin-1#Lipopolysaccharide Receptors#Lipopolysaccharides#Macrophages#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Phagocytes#Phosphatidylcholines'
b'Gastro-intestinal helminth infections trigger the release of interleukin-33 (IL-33), which induces type-2 helper T\xc2\xa0cells (Th2 cells) at the site of infection to produce IL-13, thereby contributing to host resistance in a T\xc2\xa0cell receptor (TCR)-independent manner. Here, we show that, as a prerequisite for IL-33-induced IL-13 secretion, Th2 cells required the expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and of its ligand, amphiregulin, for the formation of a signaling complex between T1/ST2 (the IL-33R) and EGFR. This shared signaling complex allowed IL-33 to induce the EGFR-mediated activation of the MAP-kinase signaling pathway and consequently the expression of IL-13. Lack of EGFR expression on T\xc2\xa0cells abrogated IL-13 expression in infected tissues and impaired host resistance. EGFR expression on Th2 cells was TCR-signaling dependent, and therefore, our data reveal a mechanism by which antigen presentation controls the innate effector function of Th2 cells at the site of inflammation. labels: #Amphiregulin#Animals#Cell Line#Cells, Cultured#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Interleukin-13#Interleukin-33#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Nematospiroides dubius#Nocardia#Nocardia Infections#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptors, Antigen, T-Cell#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Strongylida Infections#Th2 Cells'
b"Infection by helminth parasites is associated with amelioration of allergic reactivity, but mechanistic insights into this association are lacking. Products secreted by the mouse parasite Heligmosomoides polygyrus suppress type 2 (allergic) immune responses through interference in the interleukin-33 (IL-33) pathway. Here, we identified H.\xc2\xa0polygyrus Alarmin Release Inhibitor (HpARI), an IL-33-suppressive 26-kDa protein, containing three predicted complement control protein (CCP) modules. In\xc2\xa0vivo, recombinant HpARI abrogated IL-33, group 2 innate lymphoid cell (ILC2) and eosinophilic responses to Alternaria allergen administration, and diminished eosinophilic responses to Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, increasing parasite burden. HpARI bound directly to both mouse and human IL-33 (in the cytokine's activated state) and also to nuclear DNA via its N-terminal CCP module pair (CCP1/2), tethering active IL-33 within necrotic cells, preventing its release, and forestalling initiation of type 2 allergic responses. Thus, HpARI employs a novel molecular strategy to suppress type 2 immunity in both infection and allergy. labels: #Allergens#Alternaria#Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Blotting, Western#Eosinophils#Helminth Proteins#Host-Parasite Interactions#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Interleukin-33#Lymphocytes#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Nematospiroides dubius#Protein Binding#Receptors, Interleukin#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Strongylida Infections"
b'After traumatic injury, some cells function as detectors to sense injury and to modulate the local immune response toward a restitution phase by affecting the local cytokine milieu. Using intravital microscopy, we\xc2\xa0observed that patrolling invariant natural killer T\xc2\xa0(iNKT) cells were initially excluded from a site of hepatic injury but subsequently were strategically arrested first via self-antigens and then by cytokines, circumscribing the injured site at exactly the location where monocytes co-localized and hepatocytes proliferated. Activation of iNKT cells by self-antigens resulted in the production of interleukin-4 (IL-4) but not interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3). This promoted increased hepatocyte proliferation, monocyte transition (from Ly6Chito Ly6Clo), and improved healing where IL-4 from iNKT cells was critical for these processes. Disruption of any of these mechanisms led to delayed wound healing. We have shown that self-antigen-driven iNKT cells function as sensors and orchestrators of the transformation from inflammation to tissue restitution for essential timely wound repair. labels: #Animals#Autoantigens#Cell Proliferation#Hepatocytes#Inflammation#Interleukin-4#Kupffer Cells#Liver#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Fluorescence, Multiphoton#Monocytes#Natural Killer T-Cells#Time Factors#Wound Healing'
b'The latent reservoir for HIV-1 in resting memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells is the major barrier to curing HIV-1 infection. Studies of HIV-1 latency have focused on regulation of viral gene expression in cells in which latent infection is established. However, it remains unclear how infection initially becomes latent. Here we described a unique set of properties of CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells undergoing effector-to-memory transition including temporary upregulation of CCR5 expression and rapid downregulation of cellular gene transcription. These cells allowed completion of steps in the HIV-1 life cycle through integration but suppressed HIV-1 gene transcription, thus allowing the establishment of latency. CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells in this stage were substantially more permissive for HIV-1 latent infection than other CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells. Establishment of latent HIV-1 infection in CD4+T could be inhibited by viral-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cells, a result with implications for elimination of latent HIV-1 infection by T\xc2\xa0cell-based vaccines. labels: #CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cells, Cultured#Cellular Reprogramming#Cytokines#Female#Flow Cytometry#Gene Expression Profiling#HIV-1#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Immunologic Memory#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Transcription, Genetic#Virus Latency#Virus Replication'
b'Antiretroviral therapy (ART) suppresses viral replication in HIV-infected individuals but does not eliminate the reservoir of latently infected cells. Recent work identified PD-1+follicular helper T (Tfh) cells as an important cellular compartment for viral persistence. Here, using ART-treated, SIV-infected rhesus macaques, we show that CTLA-4+PD-1-memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells, which share phenotypic markers with\xc2\xa0regulatory T\xc2\xa0cells, were enriched in SIV DNA in blood, lymph nodes (LN), spleen, and gut, and contained replication-competent and infectious virus. In contrast to PD-1+Tfh cells, SIV-enriched CTLA-4+PD-1-CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells were found outside the B cell follicle of the LN, predicted the size of the persistent viral reservoir during ART, and significantly increased their contribution to the SIV reservoir with prolonged ART-mediated viral suppression. We have shown that CTLA-4+PD-1-memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells are a previously unrecognized component of the SIV and HIV reservoir that should be therapeutically targeted for a functional HIV-1 cure. labels: #Animals#Anti-Retroviral Agents#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CTLA-4 Antigen#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Immunologic Memory#In Situ Hybridization#Lymph Nodes#Macaca mulatta#Microscopy, Confocal#Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor#Simian Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome#Simian Immunodeficiency Virus#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory'
b'Inhibitors of the receptor tyrosine kinase c-MET are currently used in the clinic to target oncogenic signaling in tumor cells. We found that concomitant c-MET inhibition promoted adoptive T\xc2\xa0cell transfer and checkpoint immunotherapies in murine cancer models by increasing effector T\xc2\xa0cell infiltration in tumors. This therapeutic effect was independent of\xc2\xa0tumor cell-intrinsic c-MET dependence. Mechanistically, c-MET inhibition impaired the reactive mobilization and recruitment of neutrophils into tumors and draining lymph nodes in response to cytotoxic immunotherapies. In the absence of c-MET inhibition,\xc2\xa0neutrophils recruited to T\xc2\xa0cell-inflamed microenvironments rapidly acquired immunosuppressive properties, restraining T\xc2\xa0cell expansion and effector functions. In cancer patients, high serum levels of the c-MET ligand HGF correlated with increasing neutrophil counts and poor responses to checkpoint blockade therapies. Our findings reveal a role for the\xc2\xa0HGF/c-MET pathway in neutrophil recruitment and function and suggest that c-MET inhibitor co-treatment may improve responses to cancer immunotherapy in settings beyond c-MET-dependent tumors. labels: #Animals#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Immunotherapy#Interferon-gamma#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Neoplasms, Experimental#Neutrophils#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Signal Transduction#T-Lymphocytes#Tumor Microenvironment'
b'According to the federal statistical office, cardiovascular disorders are still the leading cause of death in Germany. Chronic ischemic heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most important subgroups. In addition to evidence-based and personalized medicine, in recent years gender medicine has been established as an independent research area. Gender differences are evident in the majority of prevalent diseases, including cardiovascular disorders. The following article provides an insight into the diagnostically and therapeutically specific aspects of coronary heart disease in men and women. labels: #Adult#Antibodies, Antiphospholipid#Contraceptives, Oral#Coronary Disease#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dyslipidemias#Estrogen Replacement Therapy#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Menopause, Premature#Middle Aged#Overweight#Pre-Eclampsia#Pregnancy#Psychology#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Smoking'
b'Patients with microvascular angina are characterized by angina pectoris with proof of myocardial ischemia in the absence of any relevant epicardial stenosis and without myocardial disease (type 1 coronary microvascular dysfunction according to Crea and Camici). Structural and functional alterations of the coronary microvessels (diameter<\xe2\x80\x8a500\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb5m) are the reason for this phenomenon. Frequently such alterations are associated with cardiovascular risk factors. Patients with angina pectoris without epicardial stenoses represent for 10\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8a50\xe2\x80\x8a% of all patients undergoing coronary angiography depending on the clinical presentation. Diagnostic approaches include non-invasive (e.\xe2\x80\x8ag. combination of coronary CT-angiography and positron emission tomography/echo Doppler-based coronary flow reserve measurements) as well as invasive procedures (coronary flow reserve measurements in response to adenosine, intracoronary acetylcholine testing). Pharmacological treatment of these patients is often challenging and should be based on the characterization of the underlying mechanisms. Moreover, strict risk factor control and individually titrated combinations of antianginal substances (e.\xe2\x80\x8ag. beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, ranolazine, ivabradine etc.) are recommended. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Calcium Channel Blockers#Cardiovascular Agents#Coronary Vasospasm#Coronary Vessels#Humans#Implantable Neurostimulators#Microvascular Angina#Myocardial Ischemia#Physical Conditioning, Human#Risk Factors#Sodium Channel Blockers'
b"An invasive measurement of the fractional flow reserve (FFR) allows the valuation of the individual risk for ischemic events in patients with coronary artery disease. Therefore, FFR has become a valuable tool to guide coronary revascularisations. The cut-off value \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a0.80 has been validated in many different subsets of patients. However, FFR values describe a risk continuum with an inverse correlation between FFR value and the risk of events. So FFR should always be interpreted regarding the patient's clinical context, especially in patients with a high risk for rapid disease progression. As such, patients with diabetes mellitus and deferred revascularisation based on FFR>\xe2\x80\x8a0.80 had worse clinical outcomes compared to patients without diabetes. In addition, FFR shows methodical deficiencies concerning the quantification of serial stenoses as well as the valuation of residual ischemia of the culprit vessel early after myocardial infarction. This article highlights both the strengths and the pitfalls in the use and interpretation of FFR. labels: #Adenosine#Angina, Stable#Contraindications#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Bypass#Coronary Disease#Coronary Stenosis#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Diabetes Complications#Fractional Flow Reserve, Myocardial#Humans#Myocardial Infarction#Myocardial Ischemia#Myocardial Revascularization#Reference Values#Risk Assessment#Stents#Ultrasonography, Interventional"
b'The need for coronary computed tomography (CTA) is still a matter of discussion. Areas in which CTA can replace invasive coronary angiography are rare. More data is needed to precise in which clinical settings CTA might be beneficial. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Disease#Humans'
b'The guidelines on the management of stable coronary artery disease (SCAD) recommend the use of coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) in the process of diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients with low intermediate pre-test probability for SCAD. Particularly in cases where stress electrocardiogram or stress imaging provides unclear results, a computed tomographic examination can be considered as a reliable alternative to invasive coronary angiography. Due to its high negative predictive value, coronary CTA can provide accurate information on the presence of coronary artery stenosis and thus coronary artery disease can be reliably excluded without the risks associated with invasive procedures. Similarly, patients with unstable angina or chest pain without typical alterations in the electrocardiogram and without an elevation of troponin can also benefit from a non-invasive coronary CTA-based diagnostics as first approach as it allows ruling out the presence of disease or planning an intervention without the risks associated with a potentially inappropriate invasive approach. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Humans'
b'History and clinical findings\xe2\x80\x82We report on three patients suffering from skin and soft tissue infections of the legs due to toxigenic Corynebacterium ulcerans strains. In all three patients, there was a predisposition due to chronic diseases. Three patients had domestic animals (cat, dog) in their households.Investigations and diagnosis\xe2\x80\x82A mixed bacterial flora including Corynebacterium ulcerans was found in wound swab samples. Diphtheric toxin was produced by the Corynebacterium ulcerans strains in all three cases.Treatment and course\xe2\x80\x82In all three patients, successful handling of the skin and soft tissue infections was possible by combining local treatment with antibiotics. Diphtheria antitoxin was not administered in any case.Conclusion\xe2\x80\x82Based on a review of the recent literature pathogenesis, clinical symptoms and signs, diagnostics and therapy of skin and soft tissue infections due to Corynebacterium ulcerans are discussed. Corynebacterium ulcerans should be considered as a potential cause of severe skin and soft tissue infections. Occupational or domestic animal contacts should be evaluated. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Animals, Domestic#Bacterial Toxins#Corynebacterium#Corynebacterium Infections#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Skin Diseases, Bacterial#Soft Tissue Infections'
b'Cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death globally. Poor diet constitutes a key factor in the initiation and progression of cardiovascular disease and has become the leading risk factor for disability and death worldwide. Therefore, addressing suboptimal nutrition is of key prognostic relevance in primary and secondary prevention of metabolic vascular syndrome.Metabolic vascular syndrome is a multidimensional network of acquired cardiometabolic risk factors closely related to insulin resistance (IR) and concomitant hyperinsulinemia. IR, being the underlying cause of metabolic vascular syndrome and certain types of cancer, should attract the attention of every clinician. As changes in lipoprotein metabolism are one of the earliest indicators of metabolic dysfunction, a relevant biomarker for identifying individuals with IR is the TAG/HDL-C ratio.IR - and concomitant metabolic vascular risk - can be effectively treated by lifestyle intervention. If IR is present, dietary carbohydrate restriction has consistently been shown to be superior to dietary fat restriction in reversing metabolic dysfunction. The beneficial effects of carbohydrate restricted diets on metabolic vascular risk are independent of BMI - diet quality therefore confers patient benefit beyond weight reduction.The effect of single nutrients on isolated lipid surrogate markers such as LDL-C does not capture their global effect on metabolic vascular risk.Targeting IR with a low glycemic load, real food diet will reduce overall energy density and will improve all risk factors of metabolic vascular syndrome. In particular, replacing refined carbohydrates with healthy fats in the context of a Mediterranean style-, low carbohydrate and calorie-unrestricted dietary pattern has been shown to significantly reduce burden of metabolic vascular disease. labels: #Cardiovascular Diseases#Diet#Dietary Carbohydrates#Dietary Fats, Unsaturated#Dietary Proteins#Feeding Behavior#Fish Products#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Overweight#Risk Factors'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine whether being upright in the second stage of labour in nulliparous women with a low dose epidural increases the chance of spontaneous vaginal birth compared with lying down.Design\xc2\xa0Multicentre pragmatic individually randomised controlled trial.Setting\xc2\xa041 UK hospital labour wards.Participants\xc2\xa03093 nulliparous women aged 16 or older, at term with a singleton cephalic presentation and in the second stage of labour with epidural analgesia.Interventions\xc2\xa0Women were allocated to an upright or lying down position, using a secure web based randomisation service, stratified by centre, with no masking of participants or clinicians to the trial interventions.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcome was spontaneous vaginal birth. Women were analysed in the groups into which they were randomly allocated, regardless of position recorded at any time during the second stage of labour (excluding women with no valid consent, who withdrew, or who did not reach second stage before delivery). Secondary outcomes included mode of birth, perineal trauma, infant Apgar score<4 at five minutes, admission to a neonatal unit, and longer term included maternal physical and psychological health, incontinence, and infant gross developmental delay.Results\xc2\xa0Between 4 October 2010 and 31 January 2014, 3236 women were randomised and 3093 (95.6%) included in the primary analysis (1556 in the upright group and 1537 in the lying down group). Significantly fewer spontaneous vaginal births occurred in women in the upright group: 35.2% (548/1556) compared with 41.1% (632/1537) in the lying down group (adjusted risk ratio 0.86, 95% confidence interval 0.78 to 0.94). This represents a 5.9% absolute increase in the chance of spontaneous vaginal birth in the lying down group (number needed to treat 17, 95% confidence interval 11 to 40). No evidence of differences was found for most of the secondary maternal, neonatal, or longer term outcomes including instrumental vaginal delivery (adjusted risk ratio 1.08, 99% confidence interval 0.99 to 1.18), obstetric anal sphincter injury (1.27, 0.88 to 1.84), infant Apgar score<4 at five minutes (0.66, 0.06 to 6.88), and maternal faecal incontinence at one year (1.18, 0.61 to 2.28).Conclusions\xc2\xa0Evidence shows that lying down in the second stage of labour results in more spontaneous vaginal births in nulliparous women with epidural analgesia, with no apparent disadvantages in relation to short or longer term outcomes for mother or baby.Trial registration\xc2\xa0Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN35706297. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Obstetrical#Anesthesia, Epidural#Anesthetics#Apgar Score#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Labor Stage, Second#Labor, Obstetric#Long Term Adverse Effects#Obstetric Labor Complications#Parity#Patient Positioning#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#United Kingdom'
b'Objectives\xc2\xa0To examine temporal trends in sex and age specific incidence of self harm in children and adolescents, clinical management patterns, and risk of cause specific mortality following an index self harm episode at a young age.Design\xc2\xa0Population based cohort study.Setting\xc2\xa0UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink-electronic health records from 647 general practices, with practice level deprivation measured ecologically using the index of multiple deprivation. Patients from eligible English practices were linked to hospital episode statistics (HES) and Office for National Statistics (ONS) mortality records.Participants\xc2\xa0For the descriptive analytical phases we examined data pertaining to 16\xe2\x80\x89912 patients aged 10-19 who harmed themselves during 2001-14. For analysis of cause specific mortality following self harm, 8638 patients eligible for HES and ONS linkage were matched by age, sex, and general practice with up to 20 unaffected children and adolescents (n=170\xe2\x80\x89274).Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0In the first phase, temporal trends in sex and age specific annual incidence were examined. In the second phase, clinical management was assessed according to the likelihood of referral to mental health services and psychotropic drug prescribing. In the third phase, relative risks of all cause mortality, unnatural death (including suicide and accidental death), and fatal acute alcohol or drug poisoning were estimated as hazard ratios derived from stratified Cox proportional hazards models for the self harm cohort versus the matched unaffected comparison cohort.Results\xc2\xa0The annual incidence of self harm was observed to increase in girls (37.4 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000) compared with boys (12.3 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000), and a sharp 68% increase occurred among girls aged 13-16, from 45.9 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000 in 2011 to 77.0 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000 in 2014. Referrals within 12 months of the index self harm episode were 23% less likely for young patients registered at the most socially deprived practices, even though incidences were considerably higher in these localities. Children and adolescents who harmed themselves were approximately nine times more likely to die unnaturally during follow-up, with especially noticeable increases in risks of suicide (deprivation adjusted hazard ratio 17.5, 95% confidence interval 7.6 to 40.5) and fatal acute alcohol or drug poisoning (34.3, 10.2 to 115.7).Conclusions\xc2\xa0Gaining a better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the recent apparent increase in the incidence of self harm among early-mid teenage girls, and coordinated initiatives to tackle health inequalities in the provision of services to distressed children and adolescents, represent urgent priorities for multiple public agencies. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Mental Health Services#Patient Care Management#Primary Health Care#Proportional Hazards Models#Psychotropic Drugs#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Self-Injurious Behavior#Sex Factors#Suicide#United Kingdom'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Congenital heart disease (CHD) is common in trisomy 13 (T13) and trisomy 18 (T18), but surgical repair has not been offered in most centers. Data on outcomes of congenital heart surgery (CHS) for T13 and T18 are lacking. We sought to determine the impact of CHS on in-hospital mortality in T13 and T18.METHODS: Data from the 2004 to 2015 Pediatric Health Information System database were used to identify inpatients with T13 or T18 and CHD. Data were restricted to newborns with T13 or T18 admitted at \xe2\x89\xa414 days of age. Hospital readmissions were examined to analyze longer-term in-hospital mortality. In-hospital mortality and length of stay were compared between infants with and without CHD and with and without CHS.RESULTS: The study cohort included 1020 infants with T18 and 648 infants with T13. CHD was present in 91% of infants with T18 and 86% of infants with T13. CHS was performed in 7% of each group. In-hospital mortality was decreased in those who underwent CHS (64% lower in T18 [P<.001]; 45% lower in T13 [P= .003]) and remained decreased throughout the 24 months of follow-up. In-hospital mortality was decreased in infants with higher weight, female sex, and older age at admission.CONCLUSIONS: CHS is associated with decreased in-hospital mortality in T18 and T13. These results suggest CHS may be beneficial in select cases. labels: #Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Chromosome Disorders#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 13#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 18#Cohort Studies#Female#Heart Defects, Congenital#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male#Retrospective Studies#Trisomy#Trisomy 13 Syndrome#Trisomy 18 Syndrome'
b'OBJECTIVES: Ethmoid punch sinusotomy (EPS) is a feasible treatment for ethmoid sinusitis in a subset of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) patients per a recent report. This adjunctive work investigates the technical characteristics of EPS and determines if EPS measurably alters the topical delivery of irrigant into the ethmoid sinuses in a cadaveric model.METHODS: The sinonasal cavities of 10 human cadaver heads were irrigated with a solution containing methylene blue and radio-opaque contrast prior to and following EPS. Procedural characteristics and irrigant distribution were assessed by endoscopy and computed tomography.RESULTS: Forty EPS procedures were performed through the ethmoid bulla and basal lamella. Compared to controls, EPS enhanced dye distribution into the anterior (90% vs 35%, P<.004) and posterior (90% vs 35%, P<.002) ethmoid sinuses, representing a 157% increase for each of these sites. Contrast was detected in a higher proportion of anterior (65% vs 5%, P<.001) and posterior (60% vs 0%, P<.001) ethmoid sinuses. Endoscopically guided catheter instillation of contrast through the EPS sites achieved radiotracer distribution throughout the ethmoid complex.CONCLUSIONS: Ethmoid punch sinusotomy sites can be reliably created via micro-minimally invasive procedures. Ethmoid punch sinusotomy improves irrigant delivery to the ethmoid sinuses, providing mechanistic understanding for the clinical outcomes observed in CRS patients. labels: #Cadaver#Endoscopy#Ethmoid Sinus#Humans#Rhinitis#Sinusitis#Therapeutic Irrigation#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Omphalocele is a congenital midline ventral body wall defect that can exist as isolated malformation or as part of a syndrome. It can be considered one of the major and most frequent clinical manifestation of Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome (BWS) in case of loss of methylation at KCNQ1OT1: Transcription Star Site-Differentially Methylated Region (TSS-DMR) or in presence of CDKN1C mutations. The isolated form of the omphalocele accounts approximately for about the 14% of the total cases and its molecular etiology has never been fully elucidated.METHODS: Given the tight relationship with BWS, we hypothesized that the isolated form of the omphalocele could belong to the heterogeneous spectrum of the BWS associated features, representing an endophenotype with a clear genetic connection. We therefore investigated genetic and epigenetic changes affecting BWS imprinted locus at 11p15.5 imprinted region, focusing in particular on the KCNQ1OT1:TSS DMR.RESULTS: We studied 21 cases of isolated omphalocele detected during pregnancy or at birth and identified the following rare maternally inherited variants: i) the non-coding variant G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A at nucleotide 687 (NR_002728.3) at KCNQ1OT1:TSS-DMR, which alters the methylation pattern of the imprinted allele, in one patient; ii) the deletion c.624-629delGGCCCC at exon 1 of CDKN1C, with unknown clinical significance, in two unrelated cases.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these findings suggest that KCNQ1OT1:TSS-DMR could be a susceptibility locus for the isolated omphalocele. labels: #Base Sequence#Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome#Child, Preschool#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#Consanguinity#Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p57#DNA Methylation#DNA Mutational Analysis#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genomic Imprinting#Hernia, Umbilical#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Mutation#Pedigree#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Sequence Deletion#Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid#Transcription Initiation Site'
b'BACKGROUND: Mutations in LMNA gene, encoding Lamin A/C, cause a diverse array of phenotypes, collectively referred to as laminopathies. The most common manifestation is dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), occurring in conjunction with variable skeletal muscle involvement but without involvement of the coronary arteries. Much less commonly, LMNA mutations cause progeroid syndromes, whereby an early-onset coronary artery disease (CAD) is the hallmark of the disease. We report a hitherto unreported compound cardiac phenotype, dubbed as "non-syndromic cardiac progeria", in a young patient who carried a rare pathogenic variant in the LMNA gene and developed progressive degeneration of various cardiac structures, as seen in the elderly. The phenotype resembled the progeroid syndromes, except that it was restricted to the heart and did not involve other organs.CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a well-developed Caucasian female who presented at age 29\xc2\xa0years with an acute myocardial infarction (MI) and was found to have extensive CAD. She had none of the conventional risk factors for atherosclerosis. She underwent coronary artery bypass surgery but continued to require multiple percutaneous coronary interventions for symptomatic obstructive coronary lesions. During the course of next 10\xc2\xa0years, she developed mitral regurgitation, degenerative mitral and aortic valve diseases, atrial flutter, and progressive conduction defects. She died from progressive heart failure with predominant involvement of the right ventricle and severe tricuspid regurgitation. Cardiac phenotype in this young patient resembled degenerative cardiac diseases of the elderly and the progeroid syndromes. However, in contrast to the progeroid syndromes, the phenotype was restricted to the heart and did not involve other organs. Thus, the phenotype was dubbed as a non-syndromic cardiac progeria. Genetic screening of several cardiomyopathy genes, including LMNA, which is a causal gene for progeroid syndromes, led to identification of a very rare pathogenic p.Asp300Asn variant in the LMNA gene.CONCLUSIONS: We infer that the LMNA p.Asp300Asn mutation is pathogenic in non-syndromic cardiac progeria. Mutations involving codon 300 in the LMNA gene have been associated with progeroid syndromes involving multiple organs. Collectively, the data provide credence to the causal role of p.Asp300Asn mutation in the pathogenesis of non-syndromic cardiac progeria. labels: #Adult#Amino Acid Sequence#Asparagine#Aspartic Acid#Base Sequence#Coronary Artery Disease#Echocardiography#Electrocardiography#Fatal Outcome#Female#Humans#Lamin Type A#Mutation, Missense#Myocardial Infarction#Pedigree#Progeria#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid'
b'During an entomological surveillance for arthropod-borne viruses in the Philippines, we isolated a previously unrecognized virus from female Armigeres spp. mosquitoes. Whole-genome sequencing, genetic characterization and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolated virus, designated Armigeres iflavirus (ArIFV), is a novel member of the iflaviruses (genus Iflavirus, family Iflaviridae) and phylogenetically related to Moku virus, Hubei odonate virus 4, slow bee paralysis virus and Graminella nigrifrons virus 1. To our knowledge, this is the first successful isolation of iflavirus from a dipteran insect. Spherical ArIFV particles of approximately 30\xe2\x80\x89nm in diameter contained at least three major structural proteins. ArIFV multiplied to high titres (~109\xe2\x80\x89p.f.u. ml-1) and formed clear plaques in a mosquito cell line, C6/36. Our findings provide new insights into the infection mechanism, genetic diversity and evolution of the Iflaviridae family. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Culicidae#Insect Viruses#Philippines#RNA Viruses#Viral Plaque Assay#Viral Structural Proteins#Virion'
b'2D surfaces offer simple analysis of cells in culture, yet these often yield different cell morphologies and responses from those observed in vivo. Considerable effort has therefore been expended on the generation of more tissue-like environments for the study of cell behavior in vitro. Purified matrix proteins provide a 3D scaffold that better mimics the in vivo situation; however, these are far removed from the complex tissue composition seen in vivo. Cell-derived matrices (CDMs) offer a more physiologically relevant alternative for studying in vivo-like cell behavior in vitro. In the protocol described here, fibroblasts cultured on gelatin-coated surfaces are maintained in the presence of ascorbic acid to strengthen matrix deposition over 1-3 weeks. The resulting fibrillar CDMs are denuded of cells, and other cells are subsequently cultured on them, after which their behavior is monitored. We also demonstrate how to use CDMs as an in vivo-relevant reductionist model for studying tumor-stroma-induced changes in carcinoma cell proliferation and migration. labels: #Cell Culture Techniques#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Collagen#Fibroblasts#Humans'
b'Ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like modifiers (UBLs) such as small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) can act as antagonists to one another by competing to occupy similar residues in the proteome. In addition, SUMO and ubiquitin can be coupled to each other at key lysine residues to form highly branched protein networks. The interplay between these modifications governs important biological processes such as double-strand break repair and meiotic recombination. We recently developed an approach that permits the identification of proteins that are modified by both SUMOylation and ubiquitylation. This protocol requires cells that express a mutant 6\xc3\x97His-SUMO3m protein that has had its C terminus modified from QQQTGG to RNQTGG, enabling the purification of SUMOylated peptides and their identification by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Cells are lysed under denaturing conditions, and the SUMOylated proteins are purified on nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) resin via the 6\xc3\x97His on the SUMO3m construct. After on-bead digestion using trypsin, ubiquitylated peptides are enriched by immunoprecipitation, and the flow-through from this step is subjected to anti-SUMO immunoprecipitation. The SUMOylated peptides are fractionated on strong cation exchange (SCX) StageTips to enhance the coverage of the SUMO proteome. The ubiquitylated and SUMOylated peptides are analyzed separately by liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS and identified with MaxQuant. We demonstrate how this approach can be used to identify temporal changes in SUMOylated and ubiquitylated proteins in response to, for instance, heat shock and proteasome inhibition. The procedure requires 3 d when starting from cell pellets and yields>8,000 SUMO sites and>3,500 ubiquitin sites from 16 mg of cell extract. labels: #Cell Line#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#Peptides#Sumoylation#Ubiquitination#Ubiquitins'
b'The presence of monoamines and their cofactors (the pterins and vitamin B6(pyridoxal phosphate (PLP))) in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can be used as indicators of the biosynthesis and turnover of dopamine and serotonin in the brain. In addition, abnormalities in the CSF levels of these molecules are associated with various neurological diseases, including genetic diseases leading to dopamine and serotonin deficiency. Here, we provide a set of quantitative high-performance liquid-chromatography (HPLC) approaches to determine CSF levels of monoamines and their cofactors. This protocol describes step-by-step procedures for CSF sample preparation for the analysis of different molecules, HPLC calibration and analysis, and data quantification and interpretation. Unlike plasma/tissue/blood samples, CSF requires minimal sample preparation: in this protocol, only the analysis of PLP requires mixing with trichloroacetic acid to release the protein-bound vitamin, centrifugation, and mixing of the supernatant with phosphate buffer and sodium cyanide for derivatization in alkaline conditions. Monoamines are analyzed by HPLC with coulometric electrochemical detection (ED), pterins are analyzed by HPLC with coupled coulometric electrochemical and fluorescence detection, and PLP is analyzed by HPLC with fluorescence detection. The quantification of all compounds is achieved by external calibration procedures, and internal quality control and standards are analyzed in each run. We anticipate that investigation of dopamine and serotonin disturbances will be facilitated by measurements of these compounds in human CSF and other biological samples. The estimated time for the different procedures primarily depends on the electrochemical detector stabilization. Overnight stabilization of this detector is advised, and, after that step, preanalytical equilibration rarely exceeds 3 h. labels: #Biogenic Monoamines#Calibration#Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Humans#Pterins#Quality Control#Vitamin B 6'
b"Development of resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs is a major challenge in the care of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Acquired resistance to chemotherapeutic agents in PDAC has been linked to a subset of cancer cells termed 'cancer stem cells' (CSCs). Therefore, an improved understanding of the molecular events underlying the development of pancreatic CSCs is required to identify new therapeutic targets to overcome chemoresistance. Accumulating evidence indicates that curcumin, a phenolic compound extracted from turmeric, can overcome de novo chemoresistance and re-sensitize tumors to various chemotherapeutic agents. However, the underlying mechanisms for curcumin-mediated chemosensitization remain unclear. The Enhancer of Zeste Homolog-2 (EZH2) subunit of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) was recently identified as a key player regulating drug resistance. EZH2 mediates interaction with several long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) to modulate epithelial-mesenchymal transition and cancer stemness, phenomena commonly associated with drug resistance. Here, we report the re-sensitization of chemoresistant PDAC cells by curcumin through the inhibition of the PRC2-PVT1-c-Myc axis. Using gemcitabine-resistant PDAC cell lines, we found that curcumin sensitized chemoresistant cancer cells by inhibiting the expression of the PRC2 subunit EZH2 and its related lncRNA PVT1. Curcumin was also found to prevent the formation of spheroids, a hallmark of CSCs, and to down-regulate several self-renewal driving genes. In addition, we confirmed our in vitro findings in a xenograft mouse model where curcumin inhibited gemcitabine-resistant tumor growth. Overall, this study indicates clinical relevance for combining curcumin with chemotherapy to overcome chemoresistance in PDAC. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Cell Line, Tumor#Curcumin#Deoxycytidine#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Mice, Nude#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Pancreatic Neoplasms#RNA, Long Noncoding#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'The yeast 2-\xce\xbcm plasmid is a remarkable genetic parasite, managing efficient maintenance at high-copy number with minimal impact on the host. Equal partitioning of the plasmid upon host cell division requires plasmid proteins Rep1 and Rep2 and the plasmid STB locus. The Rep proteins and the plasmid-encoded Raf protein also regulate plasmid gene transcription. In this study, protein interaction assays, sequence analyses and mutational approaches were used to identify domains and residues in Rep2 and Raf required for association with Rep1 and Rep2 and to delineate the Rep2 DNA-binding domain. Rep2 and Raf displayed similarities in interactions with Rep1 and Rep2, in having Rep1 promote their STB association in vivo, and in stabilizing Rep protein levels. Rep2 mutants impaired for self-association were competent for transcriptional repression while those deficient for Rep1 association were not. Surprisingly, Rep2 mutants impaired for either Rep1 interaction or self-association were able to maintain efficient plasmid inheritance provided Raf was present and competent for Rep protein interaction. Our findings provide insight into the Rep protein complexes required for partitioning and transcriptional repression, and suggest that in addition to its transcriptional function, Raf stabilization of Rep partitioning proteins contributes to the remarkable persistence of the 2-\xce\xbcm plasmid. labels: #Cell Division#Inheritance Patterns#Organisms, Genetically Modified#Plasmids#Protein Binding#Protein Stability#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Trans-Activators#raf Kinases'
b"Ligation-based nucleic acid detection methods are primarily limited to DNA, since they exhibit poor performance on RNA. This is attributed to reduced end-joining efficiency and/or fidelity of ligases. Interestingly, chlorella virus DNA ligase (PBCV-1 DNA ligase) has recently been shown to possess high RNA-templated DNA end-joining activity; however, its fidelity has not yet been systematically evaluated. Herein, we characterized PBCV-1 ligase for its RNA-templated end-joining fidelity at single base mismatches in 3' and 5' DNA probe termini and found an overall limited end-joining fidelity. To improve the specificity in PBCV-1 ligase-driven RNA detection assays, we utilized structure-specific 5' exonucleolytic activity of Thermus aquaticus DNA polymerase, used in the invader assay. In the iLock (invader padLock) probe assay, padlock probe molecules are activated prior ligation thus the base at the probe ligation junction is read twice in order to aid successful DNA ligation: first, during structure-specific invader cleavage and then during sequence-specific DNA ligation. We report two distinct iLock probe activation mechanisms and systematically evaluate the assay specificity, including single nucleotide polymorphisms on RNA, mRNA and miRNA. We show significant increase in PBCV-1 ligation fidelity in the iLock probe assay configuration for RNA detection. labels: #Base Pair Mismatch#Biosensing Techniques#DNA End-Joining Repair#DNA Ligases#DNA Probes#Limit of Detection#MicroRNAs#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#RNA#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sensitivity and Specificity#Substrate Specificity#Templates, Genetic#Viral Proteins"
b"The ready availability of vast amounts of genomic sequence data has created the need to rethink comparative genomics algorithms using 'big data' approaches. Neptune is an efficient system for rapidly locating differentially abundant genomic content in bacterial populations using an exact k-mer matching strategy, while accommodating k-mer mismatches. Neptune's loci discovery process identifies sequences that are sufficiently common to a group of target sequences and sufficiently absent from non-targets using probabilistic models. Neptune uses parallel computing to efficiently identify and extract these loci from draft genome assemblies without requiring multiple sequence alignments or other computationally expensive comparative sequence analyses. Tests on simulated and real datasets showed that Neptune rapidly identifies regions that are both sensitive and specific. We demonstrate that this system can identify trait-specific loci from different bacterial lineages. Neptune is broadly applicable for comparative bacterial analyses, yet will particularly benefit pathogenomic applications, owing to efficient and sensitive discovery of differentially abundant genomic loci. The software is available for download at: http://github.com/phac-nml/neptune. labels: #Bacillus anthracis#Bacteria#Computational Biology#DNA Mutational Analysis#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Genetic Association Studies#Genome, Bacterial#Microbiological Techniques#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Software#Transcriptome#Vibrio cholerae"
b'Community health workers (CHWs) are members of a growing profession in the United States. Studying this dynamic labor force is challenging, in part because its members have more than 100 different job titles. The demand for timely, accurate information about CHWs is increasing as the profession gains recognition for its ability to improve health outcomes and reduce costs. Although numerous surveys of CHWs have been conducted, the field lacks well-delineated methods for gaining access to this hard-to-identify workforce. We outline methods for surveying CHWs and promising approaches to engage the workforce and other stakeholders in conducting local, state, and national studies. We also highlight successful strategies to overcome challenges in CHW surveys and future directions for surveying the field. labels: #Community Health Workers#Humans#Surveys and Questionnaires#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cumulative probability (c) of arrest by age 28 years in the United States by disability status, race/ethnicity, and gender.METHODS: I estimated cumulative probabilities through birth cohort life tables with data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, 1997.RESULTS: Estimates demonstrated that those with disabilities have a higher cumulative probability of arrest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8942.65) than those without (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8929.68). The risk was disproportionately spread across races/ethnicities, with Blacks with disabilities experiencing the highest cumulative probability of arrest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8955.17) and Whites without disabilities experiencing the lowest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8927.55). Racial/ethnic differences existed by gender as well. There was a similar distribution of disability types across race/ethnicity, suggesting that the racial/ethnic differences in arrest may stem from racial/ethnic inequalities as opposed to differential distribution of disability types.CONCLUSIONS: The experience of arrest for those with disabilities was higher than expected. Police officers should understand how disabilities may affect compliance and other behaviors, and likewise how implicit bias and structural racism may affect reactions and actions of officers and the systems they work within in ways that create inequities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Continental Population Groups#Crime#Disabled Persons#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Police#Probability#Public Policy#Role#Sex Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b"More than 3 decades since its emergence in the United States, HIV continues to spread and disproportionately affect socially marginalized groups. Preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP), a highly effective prevention strategy federally approved since 2012, could fundamentally alter the course of the epidemic. However, PrEP's potential has not been fully realized, in part because health care providers have been slow to adopt PrEP in clinical practice and have been selective in their discussion of PrEP with patients. This nonstandardized approach has constrained PrEP access. PrEP access has not only been inadequate but also inequitable, with several groups in high need showing lower rates of uptake than do their socially privileged counterparts. Recognizing these early warning signs that current approaches to PrEP implementation could exacerbate existing HIV disparities, we call on health professionals to integrate PrEP into routine preventive health care for adult patients-particularly in primary care, reproductive health, and behavioral health settings. Drawing on the empirical literature, we present 4 arguments for why doing so would improve access and access equity, and we conclude that the benefits clearly outweigh the challenges. labels: #Adult#HIV Infections#Health Education#Health Services Accessibility#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Patient-Centered Care#Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis#Preventive Health Services#Social Stigma#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the geographic distribution of scorpion envenomations in the United States by zip code, with particular attention to the neurotoxic Centruroides sculpturatus (Arizona bark scorpion), for which an antivenom is available.METHODS: We obtained scorpion exposure cases for 2010 to 2015 from the National Poison Data System. Using geographic information systems software, we mapped total exposures and incidence rates for 9 states that reported more than 100 annual calls. We also mapped cases that reported fasciculations and nystagmus (unique to C. sculpturatus among native scorpions).RESULTS: The highest exposure incidences occurred in Phoenix (up to 677 per 100\xe2\x80\x89000 population) and Tucson (584), both in Arizona. Elsewhere, high incidences were found in El Paso, Texas (213); Oklahoma City (209) and Tulsa (178), Oklahoma; and Las Vegas, Nevada (170). Fasciculations and nystagmus were reported in Arizona and southeastern Nevada, with small numbers in surrounding states, including Utah.CONCLUSIONS: Scorpion exposures occurred at baseline rates throughout many of the southern states, whereas several states reported effects indicative of Arizona bark scorpion envenomation. Public Health Implications. Public and health care provider education, as well as the stocking of antivenom, should be targeted based on these findings. labels: #Antivenins#Bites and Stings#Geographic Information Systems#Health Education#Humans#Incidence#Scorpion Venoms#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the frequency of loaded handgun carrying among US adult handgun owners, characterize those who carry, and examine concealed carrying by state concealed carry laws.METHODS: Using a nationally representative survey of US adults in 2015, we asked handgun owners (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891444) about their past-30-day carrying behavior.RESULTS: Among surveyed handgun owners, 24% (95% confidence interval[CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8921%, 26%) carried loaded handguns monthly, of whom 35% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8929%, 41%) did so daily; 82% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8977%, 86%) carried primarily for protection. The proportion of handgun owners who carried concealed loaded handguns in the past 30 days was 21% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8912%, 35%) in unrestricted states, 25% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8921%, 29%) in shall issue-no discretion states, 20% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8916%, 24%) in shall issue-limited discretion states, and 9% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x896%, 15%) in may-issue states.CONCLUSIONS: We estimate that 9 million US adult handgun owners carry loaded handguns monthly, 3 million do so every day, and most report protection as the main carrying reason. Proportionally fewer handgun owners carry concealed loaded handguns in states that allow issuing authorities substantial discretion in granting carrying permits. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Firearms#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ownership#Politics#Public Policy#Safety#United States#Young Adult'
b'The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence of pseudoexfoliation syndrome\nand pseudoexfoliation glaucoma and to evaluate its association with open-angle glaucoma inpatients attending the Department of Ophthalmology, Dr Tomislav Bardek General Hospital in Koprivnica,\nnorthwestern Croatia. This prospective study was conducted at Dr Tomislav Bardek GeneralHospital between December 2012 and October 2013. A total of 5349 subjects aged 40 or above\npresenting for general ophthalmic examination were screened for pseudoexfoliation syndrome andpseudoexfoliation glaucoma. Each patient underwent complete ophthalmologic examination including\nocular history, visual acuity testing, slit-lamp examination, applanation tonometry, optic disc evaluation,visual field analysis, and gonioscopy if glaucoma was suspected. Exclusion criteria were pseudophakic\nand/or aphakic patients of any age, patients with concomitant congenital eye disease, andpatients with very dense ocular media opacities. Out of 5349 patients examined, there were 1994\n(38.38%) males and 3201 (61.61%) females. The prevalence of pseudoexfoliation syndrome was 3.6%and primary open angle glaucoma 9.4%, out of which 23.6% with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma. The\nfindings of this study improve our knowledge of pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliationglaucoma in Croatia, particularly in the northwest region. labels: #Age Distribution#Aged#Croatia#Exfoliation Syndrome#Female#Glaucoma#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sex Distribution#Visual Fields'
b'There is limited evidence showing that elevated arterial blood pressure in surgical\npatients may be associated with increased perioperative risk; however, cardiovascular instability frequentlyoccurs during anesthesia. The most commonly used anesthetic agents, both intravenous and\ninhalation ones, produce a decrease in arterial blood pressure. Magnesium, acting as a natural calcium-channelblocker, induces direct and indirect vasodilatation, thus playing a role in the treatment of arterial\nhypertension. In this research, we assessed the effects of magnesium sulfate on cardiovascularstability in patients undergoing diverse planned surgical procedures (abdominal, orthopedic, urology)\nunder general balanced anesthesia, who were diagnosed with arterial hypertension grade 1 and 2. Theresearch encompassed 100 patients of both sexes, aged from 20 to 65. Immediately before induction\nof anesthesia with propofol, the patients in the experimental group (50 study subjects) received 30 mg/kg bolus dose and magnesium sulfate infusion at 10 mg/kg/h, whereas the subjects in the control\ngroup (50 patients) were administered normal saline. Anesthesia was achieved and maintained withsevoflurane, fentanyl and rocuronium. The hemodynamic variables of mean arterial pressure and heart\nrate were measured every five minutes, starting immediately before magnesium infusion. Statisticalanalysis of the categorized values of mean arterial pressure and heart rate revealed a statistically significant between-group \ndifference at 60th and 90th minute of anesthesia. In conclusion, magnesiumsulfate as an adjuvant to anesthesia in patients with arterial hypertension reduces hemodynamic\nchanges during anesthesia. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia#Anesthesiology#Anesthetics, Combined#Blood Pressure#Double-Blind Method#Female#Heart Rate#Hemodynamics#Humans#Hypertension#Magnesium Sulfate#Male#Middle Aged#Surgical Procedures, Operative'
b'Obstructive hydrocephalus is a relatively common complication of intraventricular\nhemorrhage resulting in high morbidity and mortality. We report two cases of transient obstructivehydrocephalus caused by obstruction of mesencephalic duct in patients that presented with altered\nconsciousness which resolved spontaneously in a few hours. In very rare cases, obstructive hydrocephalusdue to intraventricular hemorrhage may be transient and does not need neurosurgical or\ninvasive procedures for lowering raised intracranial pressure, which otherwise are currently preferredtreatment options. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Hydrocephalus#Intracranial Hemorrhages#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Male#Tissue Plasminogen Activator'
b'Occurrence of bilateral pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum and subcutaneous\nemphysema during gynecologic laparoscopic procedure is very rare. We report a case of a 23-year-oldwoman who developed bilateral pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum and subcutaneous emphysema\nduring laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. Carbon dioxide extravasations outside the peritoneal cavityduring laparoscopy may have fatal consequences. Careful monitoring, immediate diagnosis and proper\ntreatment are crucial for patient safety. labels: #Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ovarian Cysts#Pneumothorax#Subcutaneous Emphysema#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Young Adult'
b'Botryoid cyst, a rare type of odontogenic cyst, is usually considered a multilocular\nvariant of lateral periodontal cyst. It was first described in 1973, and up to the present less than ahundred cases have been reported in the literature. Botryoid cysts are characterized by a multilocular\nhistologic finding and a higher risk of recurrence than lateral periodontal cysts. In this article, we presenta case of botryoid cyst from our clinical practice, accompanied by literature review of previous\ncases reported in the literature so far. Study results showed that botryoid cysts mostly affected populationin their fifties, with a slight female (53.5%) predominance over males (46.5%). The mandible was\nthe most frequently affected region, accounting for 70 (83.3%) cases. Maxilla was only sporadicallyaffected accounting for 14 (16.7%) cases. Radiographic appearance of botryoid cysts can be multilocular\nor unilocular. It is concluded that the recurrence rate is relatively high (30.1%), therefore longterm follow up is needed. labels: #Adult#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Jaw Diseases#Male#Mandibular Diseases#Middle Aged#Odontogenic Cysts'
b'BACKGROUND: The Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program penalizes hospitals that have high 30-day readmission rates across specific conditions. There is support for changing to a hospital-wide readmission measure to broaden hospital eligibility and provide incentives for improvement across more conditions.METHODS: We used Medicare claims from 2011 through 2013 to evaluate the number of hospitals that were eligible for penalties, in that they met a volume threshold of 25 admissions over a 3-year period for a specific condition or 25 admissions over a 1-year period for the cohorts included in the hospital-wide measure. We estimated the expected effects that changing from the condition-specific readmission measures to a hospital-wide measure would have on average penalties for safety-net hospitals (i.e., hospitals that treat a large proportion of low-income patients) and other hospitals.RESULTS: Our sample included 6,807,899 admissions for the hospital-wide measure and 4,392,658 admissions for the condition-specific measures. Of 3443 hospitals, 688 were considered to be safety-net hospitals. Changing to the hospital-wide measure would result in 76 more hospitals being eligible to receive penalties. The hospital-wide measure would increase penalties (mean [\xc2\xb1SE] Medicare payment reductions across all hospitals) from 0.42\xc2\xb10.01% to 0.89\xc2\xb10.01% of Medicare base diagnosis-related-group payments. It would also increase the disparity in penalties between safety-net hospitals and other hospitals from -0.03\xc2\xb10.02 to 0.41\xc2\xb10.06 percentage points.CONCLUSIONS: A transition to a hospital-wide readmission measure would only modestly increase the number of hospitals eligible for penalties and would substantially increase the penalties for safety-net hospitals. labels: #Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Economics, Hospital#Hospitals#Medicare#Patient Readmission#Reimbursement, Incentive#Safety-net Providers#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral Janus kinase inhibitor that is under investigation for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. We evaluated tofacitinib in patients with active psoriatic arthritis who had previously had an inadequate response to tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors.METHODS: In this 6-month randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned 395 patients, in a 2:2:1:1 ratio, to four regimens: 5 mg of tofacitinib administered orally twice daily (132 patients); 10 mg of tofacitinib twice daily (132 patients); placebo, with a switch to 5 mg of tofacitinib twice daily at 3 months (66 patients); or placebo, with a switch to 10 mg of tofacitinib twice daily at 3 months (65 patients). Data from the patients who received placebo during the first 3 months of the trial were pooled. The primary end points were the percentage of patients who had at least 20% improvement according to the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR20 response) and the change from baseline score on the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI; scores range from 0 to 3, with higher scores indicating greater disability) at the month 3 analysis.RESULTS: At 3 months, the rates of ACR20 response were 50% with the 5-mg dose of tofacitinib and 47% with the 10-mg dose, as compared with 24% with placebo (P<0.001 for both comparisons); the corresponding mean changes from baseline in HAQ-DI score were -0.39 and -0.35, as compared with -0.14 (P<0.001 for both comparisons). Serious adverse events occurred in 4% of the patients who received the 5-mg dose of tofacitinib continuously and in 6% who received the 10-mg dose continuously. Over the course of 6 months, there were four serious infections, three herpes zoster infections, one myocardial infarction, and one ischemic stroke among the patients who received tofacitinib continuously. Elevations of aspartate and alanine aminotransferase concentrations of three or more times the upper limit of the normal range occurred in more patients who received tofacitinib continuously than in patients who received placebo followed by tofacitinib.CONCLUSIONS: In this trial involving patients with active psoriatic arthritis who had had an inadequate response to TNF inhibitors, tofacitinib was more effective than placebo over 3 months in reducing disease activity. Adverse events were more frequent with tofacitinib than with placebo. (Funded by Pfizer; OPAL Beyond ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01882439 .). labels: #Administration, Oral#Adult#Alanine Transaminase#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Psoriatic#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Disability Evaluation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Janus Kinases#Male#Middle Aged#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Pyrroles#Treatment Failure#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral Janus kinase inhibitor that is under investigation for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. We evaluated tofacitinib in patients with active psoriatic arthritis who previously had an inadequate response to conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs).METHODS: In this 12-month, double-blind, active-controlled and placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned patients in a 2:2:2:1:1 ratio to receive one of the following regimens: tofacitinib at a 5-mg dose taken orally twice daily (107 patients), tofacitinib at a 10-mg dose taken orally twice daily (104), adalimumab at a 40-mg dose administered subcutaneously once every 2 weeks (106), placebo with a blinded switch to the 5-mg tofacitinib dose at 3 months (52), or placebo with a blinded switch to the 10-mg tofacitinib dose at 3 months (53). Placebo groups were pooled for analyses up to month 3. Primary end points were the proportion of patients who had an American College of Rheumatology 20 (ACR20) response (\xe2\x89\xa520% improvement from baseline in the number of tender and swollen joints and at least three of five other important domains) at month 3 and the change from baseline in the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI) score (scores range from 0 to 3, with higher scores indicating greater disability) at month 3.RESULTS: ACR20 response rates at month 3 were 50% in the 5-mg tofacitinib group and 61% in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, as compared with 33% in the placebo group (P=0.01 for the comparison of the 5-mg dose with placebo; P<0.001 for the comparison of the 10-mg dose with placebo); the rate was 52% in the adalimumab group. The mean change in the HAQ-DI score was -0.35 in the 5-mg tofacitinib group and -0.40 in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, as compared with -0.18 in the placebo group (P=0.006 for the comparison of the 5-mg dose with placebo; P<0.001 for the comparison of the 10-mg dose with placebo); the score change was -0.38 in the adalimumab group. The rate of adverse events through month 12 was 66% in the 5-mg tofacitinib group, 71% in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, 72% in the adalimumab group, 69% in the placebo group that switched to the 5-mg tofacitinib dose, and 64% in the placebo group that switched to the 10-mg tofacitinib dose. There were four cases of cancer, three serious infections, and four cases of herpes zoster in patients who received tofacitinib during the trial.CONCLUSIONS: The efficacy of tofacitinib was superior to that of placebo at month 3 in patients with psoriatic arthritis who had previously had an inadequate response to conventional synthetic DMARDs. Adverse events were more frequent with tofacitinib than with placebo. (Funded by Pfizer; OPAL Broaden ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01877668 .). labels: #Adalimumab#Administration, Oral#Adult#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Psoriatic#Disability Evaluation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Janus Kinases#Male#Middle Aged#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Pyrroles'
b'In an effort to improve the technical success rates and clinical outcomes of radiofrequency (RF) ablation, Yan et al validated the use of a tumor-penetrating peptide and thermosensitive doxorubicin (DOX)-loaded nanoparticles in combination with RF ablation in a hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model. By achieving higher chemotherapeutic drug concentrations in target lesions, fewer toxic effects, and improved survival end points in an animal tumor model, the authors conclude that superior tumor treatment with RF ablation is possible when combined with molecular-targeted drug delivery systems. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Catheter Ablation#Doxorubicin#Drug Carriers#Liver Neoplasms, Experimental#Mice#Molecular Imaging#Nanoparticles#Peptides#Theranostic Nanomedicine'
b'History A 34-year-old man without underlying medical conditions came to the emergency department for evaluation of persistent pain over the volar portion of his right fifth finger after a fall during a football match 3 days before. At physical examination, the injured finger was swollen and purple. Passive and active flexion of the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints were compromised, without interphalangeal instability. Radiography was performed in the emergency department, and the patient was released with a diagnosis of a fifth digit sprain. After the senior radiologist (V.M.C.) reviewed the radiographs, the patient was called back for assessment with ultrasonography (US) on the same day. US was performed with an Aplio 500 unit (Toshiba Medical Systems, Tokyo, Japan) using a multifrequency linear array 7.2-18.0-MHz PLT-1204BX transducer focused at the level of the flexor tendon. The patient was sitting in front of the examiner, with the hand lying palm up on the examination bed. No abnormality was observed during color Doppler US. labels: #Adult#Finger Injuries#Finger Joint#Fingers#Humans#Male'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to determine if the pattern of monthly medical expense can be used to identify individuals at risk of dying, thus supporting providers in proactively engaging in advanced care planning discussions.BACKGROUND: Identifying the right time to discuss end of life can be difficult. Improved predictive capacity has made it possible for nurse leaders to use large data sets to guide clinical decision making.METHODS: We examined the patterns of monthly medical expense of Medicare beneficiaries with life-limiting illness during the last 24 months of life using analysis of variance, t tests, and stepwise hierarchical linear modeling.RESULTS: In the final year of life, monthly medical expense increases rapidly for all disease groupings and forms distinct patterns of change.CONCLUSION: Type of condition can be used to classify decedents into distinctly different cost trajectories. Conditions including chronic disease, system failure, or cancer may be used to identify patients who may benefit from supportive care. labels: #Advance Care Planning#Aged#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Chronic Disease#Communication#Costs and Cost Analysis#Electronic Health Records#Hospice Care#Humans#Meaningful Use#Physician-Patient Relations#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Terminally Ill#United States#Unnecessary Procedures'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aims of the project are to increase knowledge related to opioids and improve adherence to evidence-based interventions for sedation monitoring and assessment in adult inpatients receiving opioids for pain through delivery of an interprofessional online program.BACKGROUND: Preventable opioid-induced respiratory depression is a patient safety risk in hospitals. Sedation and respiratory assessment and monitoring guidelines and tools are available to improve practice.METHODS: An interprofessional team identified organization-specific drivers of opioid-induced sedation and respiratory depression using process improvement methodology, developed interventions, and evaluated clinician opioid knowledge and documentation practice.RESULTS: Opioid knowledge survey responses improved after the interventions. Audits showing improved appropriate documentation by RNs of the correct sedation scale were performed over 2 separate 3-month periods.CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians demonstrated increased knowledge about newly adopted sedation and monitoring practices targeted to prevent opioid-induced respiratory depression. labels: #Adult#Analgesics, Opioid#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Monitoring, Physiologic#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Pain Management#Patient Safety#Respiratory Insufficiency#Risk Assessment'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and incremental net cost of a fall prevention intervention that involved hourly rounding by RNs at 2 hospitals.BACKGROUND: Minimizing in-hospital falls is a priority, but little is known about the value of fall prevention interventions.METHODS: We used an uncontrolled before-after design to evaluate changes in fall rates and time use by RNs. Using decision-analytical models, we estimated incremental net costs per hospital per year.RESULTS: Falls declined at 1 hospital (incidence rate ratio [IRR], 0.47; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.26-0.87; P = .016), but not the other (IRR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.59-1.17; P = .28). Cost analyses projected a 67.9% to 72.2% probability of net savings at both hospitals due to unexpected declines in the time that RNs spent in fall-related activities.CONCLUSIONS: Incorporating fall prevention into hourly rounds might improve value. Time that RNs invest in implementing quality improvement interventions can equate to sizable opportunity costs or savings. labels: #Accidental Falls#California#Costs and Cost Analysis#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Models, Economic#Monte Carlo Method#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Safety Management#Time Factors'
b'Although a plurality of drugs target G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), most have emerged from classical medicinal chemistry and pharmacology programs and resemble one another structurally and functionally. Though effective, these drugs are often promiscuous. With the realization that GPCRs signal via multiple pathways, and with the emergence of crystal structures for this family of proteins, there is an opportunity to target GPCRs with new chemotypes and confer new signaling modalities. We consider structure-based and physical screening methods that have led to the discovery of new reagents, focusing particularly on the former. We illustrate their use against previously untargeted or orphan GPCRs, against allosteric sites, and against classical orthosteric sites that selectively activate one downstream pathway over others. The ligands that emerge are often chemically novel, which can lead to new biological effects. labels: #Allosteric Regulation#Allosteric Site#Drug Design#Drug Discovery#Humans#Ligands#Molecular Docking Simulation#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Signal Transduction'
b'Fundamental to biological decision-making is the ability to generate bimodal expression patterns where 2 alternate expression states simultaneously exist. Here, we use a combination of single-cell analysis and mathematical modeling to examine the sources of bimodality in the transcriptional program controlling HIV\'s fate decision between active replication and viral latency. We find that the HIV transactivator of transcription (Tat) protein manipulates the intrinsic toggling of HIV\'s promoter, the long terminal repeat (LTR), to generate bimodal ON-OFF expression and that transcriptional positive feedback from Tat shifts and expands the regime of LTR bimodality. This result holds for both minimal synthetic viral circuits and full-length virus. Strikingly, computational analysis indicates that the Tat circuit\'s noncooperative "nonlatching" feedback architecture is optimized to slow the promoter\'s toggling and generate bimodality by stochastic extinction of Tat. In contrast to the standard Poisson model, theory and experiment show that nonlatching positive feedback substantially dampens the inverse noise-mean relationship to maintain stochastic bimodality despite increasing mean expression levels. Given the rapid evolution of HIV, the presence of a circuit optimized to robustly generate bimodal expression appears consistent with the hypothesis that HIV\'s decision between active replication and latency provides a viral fitness advantage. More broadly, the results suggest that positive-feedback circuits may have evolved not only for signal amplification but also for robustly generating bimodality by decoupling expression fluctuations (noise) from mean expression levels. labels: #Algorithms#Feedback, Physiological#Flow Cytometry#Gene Expression Regulation, Viral#Green Fluorescent Proteins#HEK293 Cells#HIV Infections#HIV Long Terminal Repeat#HIV-1#Humans#Jurkat Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Genetic#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Single-Cell Analysis#Stochastic Processes#Transcription, Genetic#Virus Latency#tat Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus'
b'Accurate gene or protein function prediction is a key challenge in the post-genome era. Most current methods perform well on molecular function prediction, but struggle to provide useful annotations relating to biological process functions due to the limited power of sequence-based features in that functional domain. In this work, we systematically evaluate the predictive power of temporal transcription expression profiles for protein function prediction in Drosophila melanogaster. Our results show significantly better performance on predicting protein function when transcription expression profile-based features are integrated with sequence-derived features, compared with the sequence-derived features alone. We also observe that the combination of expression-based and sequence-based features leads to further improvement of accuracy on predicting all three domains of gene function. Based on the optimal feature combinations, we then propose a novel multi-classifier-based function prediction method for Drosophila melanogaster proteins, FFPred-fly+. Interpreting our machine learning models also allows us to identify some of the underlying links between biological processes and developmental stages of Drosophila melanogaster. labels: #Animals#Cluster Analysis#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Gene Expression Profiling#Models, Statistical#Phenotype#Transcriptome'
b'Aedes albopictus is a highly invasive disease vector with an expanding worldwide distribution. Genetic assays using low to medium resolution markers have found little evidence of spatial genetic structure even at broad geographic scales, suggesting frequent passive movement along human transportation networks. Here we analysed genetic structure of Aedes albopictus collected from 12 sample sites in Guangzhou, China, using thousands of genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We found evidence for passive gene flow, with distance from shipping terminals being the strongest predictor of genetic distance among mosquitoes. As further evidence of passive dispersal, we found multiple pairs of full-siblings distributed between two sample sites 3.7 km apart. After accounting for geographical variability, we also found evidence for isolation by distance, previously undetectable in Ae. albopictus. These findings demonstrate how large SNP datasets and spatially-explicit hypothesis testing can be used to decipher processes at finer geographic scales than formerly possible. Our approach can be used to help predict new invasion pathways of Ae. albopictus and to refine strategies for vector control that involve the transformation or suppression of mosquito populations. labels: #Aedes#Animals#China#Cities#Gene Flow#Genome, Insect#Genome-Wide Association Study#Mosquito Vectors#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide'
b'While the ultimate consequences of social bonds start to be better understood, the proximate behavioural mechanisms underlying the formation and maintenance of these close affiliative relationships have received less attention. We investigated the possible function of male-infant-male interactions (MIMIs) in male-male social bonding processes by analysing about 9000h of focal animal observations collected on two groups of wild Assamese macaques. In support of an agonistic buffering function of MIMIs, after engaging in a MIMI upon approach, subordinates stayed longer in close proximity of a dominant male. Overall, the frequency of MIMIs increased the stronger the affiliative relationship between two males, suggesting that MIMIs like grooming function in relationship maintenance. We did not find support for a role of MIMIs in bond formation as the frequency of MIMIs did not affect the time a male dyad spent in proximity in the consecutive year. Our results contribute to the general debate on behaviours influencing social dynamics in group living mammals. labels: #Animals#Behavior, Animal#Female#Linear Models#Macaca#Male#Social Behavior#Time Factors'
b'Here we introduce a new assessment of emotion regulation called the Mentalized Affectivity Scale (MAS). A large online adult sample (N = 2,840) completed the 60-item MAS along with a battery of psychological measures. Results revealed a robust three-component structure underlying mentalized affectivity, which we labeled: Identifying emotions (the ability to identify emotions and to reflect on the factors that influence them); Processing emotions (the ability to modulate and distinguish complex emotions); and Expressing emotions (the tendency to express emotions outwardly or inwardly). Hierarchical modeling suggested that Processing emotions delineates from Identifying them, and Expressing emotions delineates from Processing them. We then showed how these components are associated with personality traits, well-being, trauma, and 18 different psychological disorders (including mood, neurological, and personality disorders). Notably, those with anxiety, mood, and personality disorders showed a profile of high Identifying and low Processing compared to controls. Further, results showed how mentalized affectivity scores varied across psychological treatment modalities and years spent in therapy. Taken together, the model of mentalized affectivity advances prior theory and research on emotion regulation and the MAS is a useful and reliable instrument that can be used in both clinical and non-clinical settings in psychology, psychiatry, and neuroscience. labels: #Adult#Affect#Demography#Empathy#Female#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Models, Psychological#Principal Component Analysis#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Important control efforts have led to a significant reduction of the prevalence of human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) in C\xc3\xb4te d\'Ivoire, but the disease is still present in several foci. The existence of an animal reservoir of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense may explain disease persistence in these foci where animal breeding is an important source of income but where the prevalence of animal African trypanosomiasis (AAT) is unknown. The aim of this study was to identify the trypanosome species circulating in domestic animals in both Bonon and Sinfra HAT endemic foci.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: 552 domestic animals (goats, pigs, cattle and sheep) were included. Blood samples were tested for trypanosomes by microscopic observation, species-specific PCR for T. brucei sl, T. congolense, T. vivax and subspecies-specific PCR for T. b. gambiense and T. b. gambiense immune trypanolysis (TL). Infection rates varied significantly between animal species and were by far the highest in pigs (30%). T. brucei s.l was the most prevalent trypanosome species (13.7%) followed by T. congolense. No T. b. gambiense was identified by PCR while high TL positivity rates were observed using T. b. gambiense specific variants (up to 27.6% for pigs in the Bonon focus).CONCLUSION: This study shows that domestic animals are highly infected by trypanosomes in the studied foci. This was particularly true for pigs, possibly due to a higher exposure of these animals to tsetse flies. Whereas T. brucei s.l. was the most prevalent species, discordant results were obtained between PCR and TL regarding T. b. gambiense identification. It is therefore crucial to develop better tools to study the epidemiological role of potential animal reservoir for T. b. gambiense. Our study illustrates the importance of "one health" approaches to reach HAT elimination and contribute to AAT control in the studied foci. labels: #Animals#Cattle#Cattle Diseases#Cote d\'Ivoire#Disease Reservoirs#Humans#Swine#Swine Diseases#Trypanosoma brucei gambiense#Trypanosomiasis, African'
b'Small-angle X-ray scattering is an increasingly popular technique used to detect protein structures and ensembles in solution. However, the refinement of structures and ensembles against SAXS data is often ambiguous due to the low information content of SAXS data, unknown systematic errors, and unknown scattering contributions from the solvent. We offer a solution to such problems by combining Bayesian inference with all-atom molecular dynamics simulations and explicit-solvent SAXS calculations. The Bayesian formulation correctly weights the SAXS data versus prior physical knowledge, it quantifies the precision or ambiguity of fitted structures and ensembles, and it accounts for unknown systematic errors due to poor buffer matching. The method further provides a probabilistic criterion for identifying the number of states required to explain the SAXS data. The method is validated by refining ensembles of a periplasmic binding protein against calculated SAXS curves. Subsequently, we derive the solution ensembles of the eukaryotic chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) against experimental SAXS data. We find that the SAXS data of the apo state of Hsp90 is compatible with a single wide-open conformation, whereas the SAXS data of Hsp90 bound to ATP or to an ATP-analogue strongly suggest heterogenous ensembles of a closed and a wide-open state. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Computational Biology#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Protein Conformation#Proteins#Scattering, Small Angle#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'BACKGROUND: Due to the high burden of dengue disease worldwide, a better understanding of the interactions between dengue virus (DENV) and its human host cells is of the utmost importance. Although microRNAs modulate the outcome of several viral infections, their contribution to DENV replication is poorly understood.METHODS AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We investigated the microRNA expression profile of primary human macrophages challenged with DENV and deciphered the contribution of microRNAs to infection. To this end, human primary macrophages were challenged with GFP-expressing DENV and sorted to differentiate between truly infected cells (DENV-positive) and DENV-exposed but non-infected cells (DENV-negative cells). The miRNAome was determined by small RNA-Seq analysis and the effect of differentially expressed microRNAs on DENV yield was examined. Five microRNAs were differentially expressed in human macrophages challenged with DENV. Of these, miR-3614-5p was found upregulated in DENV-negative cells and its overexpression reduced DENV infectivity. The cellular targets of miR-3614-5p were identified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and western blot. Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA 1 (ADAR1) was identified as one of the targets of miR-3614-5p and was shown to promote DENV infectivity at early time points post-infection.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Overall, miRNAs appear to play a limited role in DENV replication in primary human macrophages. The miRNAs that were found upregulated in DENV-infected cells did not control the production of infectious virus particles. On the other hand, miR-3614-5p, which was upregulated in DENV-negative macrophages, reduced DENV infectivity and regulated ADAR1 expression, a protein that facilitates viral replication. labels: #Adenosine Deaminase#Dengue Virus#Gene Deletion#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Macrophages#MicroRNAs#RNA-Binding Proteins#Transcriptome#Virus Replication'
b"Partner dance has been shown to be beneficial for the health of older adults. Robots could potentially facilitate healthy aging by engaging older adults in partner dance-based exercise. However, partner dance involves physical contact between the dancers, and older adults would need to be accepting of partner dancing with a robot. Using methods from the technology acceptance literature, we conducted a study with 16 healthy older adults to investigate their acceptance of robots for partner dance-based exercise. Participants successfully led a human-scale wheeled robot with arms (i.e., a mobile manipulator) in a simple, which we refer to as the Partnered Stepping Task (PST). Participants led the robot by maintaining physical contact and applying forces to the robot's end effectors. According to questionnaires, participants were generally accepting of the robot for partner dance-based exercise, tending to perceive it as useful, easy to use, and enjoyable. Participants tended to perceive the robot as easier to use after performing the PST with it. Through a qualitative data analysis of structured interview data, we also identified facilitators and barriers to acceptance of robots for partner dance-based exercise. Throughout the study, our robot used admittance control to successfully dance with older adults, demonstrating the feasibility of this method. Overall, our results suggest that robots could successfully engage older adults in partner dance-based exercise. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomechanical Phenomena#Dancing#Demography#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Motivation#Robotics#Surveys and Questionnaires#Technology"
b'In Italy, at present, a well-known problem is inhomogeneous provision of rehabilitative services, as stressed by MoH, requiring appropriate criteria and parameters to plan rehabilitation actions. According to the Italian National Rehabilitation Plan, Comorbidity, Disability and Clinical Complexity should be assessed to define the patient\'s real needs. However, to date, clinical complexity is still difficult to measure with shared and validated tools. The study aims to psychometrically validate the Italian Rehabilitation Complexity Scale-Extended v13 (RCS-E v13), in order to meet the guidelines requirements. An observational multicentre prospective cohort study, involving 8 intensive rehabilitation facilities of the Emilia-Romagna Region and 1712 in-patients, [823 male (48%) and 889 female (52%), mean age 68.34 years (95% CI 67.69-69.00 years)] showing neurological, orthopaedic and cardiological problems, was carried out. The construct and concurrent validity of the RCS-E v13 was confirmed through its correlation to Barthel Index (disability) and Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (comorbidity) and appropriate admission criteria (not yet published), respectively. Furthermore, the factor analysis indicated two different components ("Basic Care or Risk-Equipment" and "Medical-Nursing Needs and Therapy Disciplines") of the RCS-E v13. In conclusion, the Italian RCS-E v13 appears to be a useful tool to assess clinical complexity in the Italian rehab scenario case-mix and its psychometric validation may have an important clinical rehabilitation impact allowing the assessment of the rehabilitation needs considering all three dimensions (disability, comorbidity and clinical complexity) as required by the Guidelines and the inhomogeneity could be reduced. labels: #Aged#Demography#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Female#Humans#Italy#Male#Principal Component Analysis#Psychometrics#Rehabilitation#Reproducibility of Results#Statistics, Nonparametric#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b"Mating-induced sexual inhibition has been studied extensively as an important facet of many insect mating systems but remains little understood in spiders. Once mated, females of many spider species become unreceptive and aggressive toward males, but the speed of onset and persistence of this effect are not known. Addressing this gap, the present study considers (1) mating tendency of virgins, latency to remating, and lifetime mating frequency and (2) how quickly sexual inhibition is expressed after the first mating in female Servaea incana jumping spiders. Encounters between males and females took place in two contexts that simulated locations where mating occurs in nature: in the light away from nests ('in the open') and in low light within the shelter of silken retreats ('at a retreat'). Virgin females exhibited high receptivity levels in both contexts but sexual inhibition was induced immediately after their first copulation. The most common tendency was for just one mating in a lifetime, and few females mated more than twice. Context also had an effect on female mating tendency, as virgin females in the open rejected more males before accepting their first mate than did virgin females in retreats. Considering only those females that did remate, females in the open tended to reject fewer males before remating. Given low levels of female remating, virgin females appear to be at a premium for male reproductive fitness in S. incana jumping spiders and this is a likely explanation for protandry found in nature. labels: #Animals#Female#Locomotion#Male#Sexual Behavior, Animal#Spiders#Time Factors"
b"Biological sex differences affect the course of HIV infection, with untreated women having lower viral loads compared to their male counterparts but, for a given viral load, women have a higher rate of progression to AIDS. However, the vast majority of data on viral evolution, a process that is clearly impacted by host immunity and could be impacted by sex differences, has been derived from men. We conducted an intensive analysis of HIV-1 gag and env-gp120 evolution taken over the first 6-11 years of infection from 8 Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) participants who had not received combination antiretroviral therapy (ART). This was compared to similar data previously collected from men, with both groups infected with HIV-1 subtype B. Early virus populations in men and women were generally homogenous with no differences in diversity between sexes. No differences in ensuing nucleotide substitution rates were found between the female and male cohorts studied herein. As previously reported for men, time to peak diversity in env-gp120 in women was positively associated with time to CD4+ cell count below 200 (P = 0.017), and the number of predicted N-linked glycosylation sites generally increased over time, followed by a plateau or decline, with the majority of changes localized to the V1-V2 region. These findings strongly suggest that the sex differences in HIV-1 disease progression attributed to immune system composition and sensitivities are not revealed by, nor do they impact, global patterns of viral evolution, the latter of which proceeds similarly in women and men. labels: #Cohort Studies#Disease Progression#Evolution, Molecular#Female#Glycosylation#HIV Envelope Protein gp120#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Likelihood Functions#Male#Nucleotides#Phylogeny#Sex Characteristics#Time Factors#gag Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus"
b'This study identifies and analyzes statistically significant overlaps between selective sweep screens in anatomically modern humans and several domesticated species. The results obtained suggest that (paleo-)genomic data can be exploited to complement the fossil record and support the idea of self-domestication in Homo sapiens, a process that likely intensified as our species populated its niche. Our analysis lends support to attempts to capture the "domestication syndrome" in terms of alterations to certain signaling pathways and cell lineages, such as the neural crest. labels: #Alleles#Animals#Domestication#Gene Expression Profiling#Genomics#Hominidae#Humans#Selection, Genetic#Species Specificity#Synteny'
b'Very narrow and pure silver nanoparticles were synthesized by modified thermal treatment method via oxygen and nitrogen flow in succession. The structural and optical properties of the calcined silver nanoparticles at 600\xc2\xb0C with diverse Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations varied from 2% to 4% were studied by means of different techniques. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy was used to monitor the production of pure Ag nanoparticles at a given Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentration. The X-ray powder diffraction spectra are evidence for the transformation of the amorphous sample at 30\xc2\xb0C to the cubic crystalline nanostructures at the calcination temperatures for all Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations. The transmission electron microscopy images showed the creation of spherical silver nanoparticles with the average particle size decreased by increasing Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations from 4.61 nm at 2% to 2.49 nm at 4% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone). The optical properties were investigated by means of UV-vis absorption spectrophotometer, which showed an increase in the conduction band of Ag nanoparticles with increasing Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations from 2.83 eV at 2% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) to 2.94 eV at 4% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) due to decreasing particle size. This was due to less attraction between conduction electrons and metal ions for smaller particle size corresponding to fewer atoms that made up the metal nanoparticles. labels: #Metal Nanoparticles#Nanotechnology#Optical Phenomena#Particle Size#Povidone#Powders#Silver#Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet#Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared#Temperature#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'A computer model was used to simulate the dependence of protonmotive force (\xce\x94p), proton leak and phenomenological (involving proton leak) ATP/O2 ratio on work intensity in skeletal muscle. \xce\x94p, NADH and proton leak decreased with work intensity. The contribution of proton leak to oxygen consumption ([Formula: see text]) decreased from about 60% at rest to about 3 and 1% at moderate and heavy/severe exercise, respectively, while the ATP/O2 ratio increased from 2.1 to 5.5 and 5.7. A two-fold increase in proton leak activity or its decrease to zero decreased/increased the ATP/O2 ratio by only about 3 and 1% during moderate and heavy/severe exercise, respectively. The low contribution of proton leak to [Formula: see text]in intensively working skeletal muscle was mostly caused by a huge increase in ATP usage intensity during rest-to-work transition, while OXPHOS, and thus oxidative ATP supply and [Formula: see text] related to it, was mostly stimulated by high each-step activation (ESA) of OXPHOS complexes. The contribution of proton leak to [Formula: see text]and ATP/O2 ratio in isolated mitochondria should not be directly extrapolated to working muscle, as mitochondria lack ESA, at least in the absence of Ca2+, and therefore [Formula: see text] cannot be elevated as much as in intact muscle. labels: #Adenosine Diphosphate#Adenosine Triphosphate#Exercise#Humans#Muscle, Skeletal#Oxygen Consumption#Proton-Motive Force#Protons#Rest'
b'The morphology and the drug sensitivity of the strain GYX2014-1 isolated from the hepatic pancreatic tissue of moribund Litopenaeus vannamei were evaluated by conventional culture characteristics, physical and chemical characteristics, and molecular biology methods. Detection of extracellulase and hemolysin activity shows that the isolated GYX2014-1 has protease, lipase, gelatinase activity, but none of amylase, or lecithinase activity. The 16S rRNA gene (GenBank accession number: KT781675) was analyzed, and a phylogenetic tree analysis showed that the isolated pathogen was most closely related to V. vulnificus (GenBank accession number: NR 118570)-a match of more than 99%. The phenotypic traits and molecular biology of isolated bacteria, determined their identity as Vibrio vulnificus (V. vulnificus). In addition, artificially infected L. vannamei with Vibrio vulnificus appeared with the same disease symptoms as those of naturally infected shrimp. Drug sensitivity tests showed that V. vulnificus is highly sensitive to fosfomycin, cefradine and sinomin, and was resistant to penicillin, amikacin and kanamycin. This experiment is the first to separate V. vulnificus from L. vannamei, and the findings of this study can be used as a reference for disease control and health management. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Colony Count, Microbial#Extracellular Space#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Penaeidae#Phenotype#Phylogeny#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Vibrio Infections#Vibrio vulnificus'
b'Hibernating animals can adjust torpor expression according to available energy reserves. Besides the quantity, the quality of energy reserves could play an important role for overwintering strategies. Common hamsters are food-storing hibernators and show high individual variation in hibernation performance, which might be related to the quality of food hoards in the hibernacula. In this study, we tested the effects of food stores high in fat content, particularly polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), on hibernation patterns under laboratory conditions. Control animals received standard rodent pellets only, while in the other group pellets were supplemented with sunflower seeds. We recorded body temperature during winter using subcutaneously implanted data loggers, documented total food consumption during winter, and analysed PUFA proportions in white adipose tissue (WAT) before and after the winter period. About half of the individuals in both groups hibernated and torpor expression did not differ between these animals. Among the high-fat group, however, individuals with high sunflower seeds intake strongly reduced the time spent in deep torpor. PUFA proportions in WAT decreased during winter in both groups and this decline was positively related to the time an individual spent in deep torpor. Sunflower seeds intake dampened the PUFA decline resulting in higher PUFA levels in animals of the high-fat group after winter. In conclusion, our results showed that common hamsters adjusted torpor expression and food intake in relation to the total energy of food reserves, underlining the importance of food hoard quality on hibernation performance. labels: #Adipose Tissue, White#Animals#Body Weight#Cricetinae#Diet, High-Fat#Eating#Fatty Acids, Unsaturated#Female#Hibernation#Seeds#Time Factors#Torpor'
b'BACKGROUND: Rhinovirus infections during infancy account for the majority of respiratory illness health care utilization and are an associated risk factor for subsequent development of allergic asthma. Neonatal type I interferon production is diminished compared to adults after stimulation with TLR agonists. However, broad profiling of immune cell responses to infectious rhinovirus has not been undertaken and we hypothesized that additional immune differences can be identified in neonates. In this study, we undertook a comparative analysis of neonatal and adult blood immune cell responses after in vitro incubation with infectious RV-A16 for 6 and 24 hours.METHODS: Intracellular proinflammatory and type I interferon cytokines along with expression of surface co-stimulatory and maturation markers were measured using multi-parameter flow cytometry.RESULTS: Both circulating myeloid dendritic cell (mDC) and plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC) frequency were lower in cord blood. Qualitative and quantitative plasmacytoid dendritic cell IFN-alpha + TNF- alpha responses to rhinovirus were significantly lower in cord pDCs. In cord blood samples, the majority of responsive pDCs were single-positive TNF-alpha producing cells, whereas in adult samples rhinovirus increased double-positive TNF-alpha+IFN-alpha+ pDCs. Rhinovirus upregulated activation and maturation markers on monocytes, mDCs, pDCs, and B cells, but CD40+CD86+ monocytes, mDCs, and pDCs cells were significantly higher in adult samples compared to cord samples. Surprisingly, rhinovirus increased CD40+CD86+ B cells to a significantly greater extent in cord samples compared to adults.CONCLUSIONS: These findings define a number of cell-specific differences in neonatal responses to rhinovirus. This differential age-related immune response to RV may have implications for the immune correlates of protection to viral respiratory illness burden and determination of potential biomarkers for asthma risk. labels: #Adult#B-Lymphocytes#Biomarkers#Cell Differentiation#Cytokines#Dendritic Cells#HLA-DR Antigens#HeLa Cells#Humans#Immunity#Infant, Newborn#Lymphocyte Activation#Rhinovirus#Umbilical Cord'
b'BACKGROUND: The Global Trachoma Mapping Project (GTMP) was implemented with the aim of completing the baseline map of trachoma globally. Over 2.6 million people were examined in 1,546 districts across 29 countries between December 2012 and January 2016. The aim of the analysis was to estimate the unit cost and to identify the key cost drivers of trachoma prevalence surveys conducted as part of GTMP.METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In-country and global support costs were obtained using GTMP financial records. In-country expenditure was analysed for 1,164 districts across 17 countries. The mean survey cost was $13,113 per district [median: $11,675; IQR = $8,365-$14,618], $17,566 per evaluation unit [median: $15,839; IQR = $10,773-$19,915], $692 per cluster [median: $625; IQR = $452-$847] and $6.0 per person screened [median: $4.9; IQR = $3.7-$7.9]. Survey unit costs varied substantially across settings, and were driven by parameters such as geographic location, demographic characteristics, seasonal effects, and local operational constraints. Analysis by activities showed that fieldwork constituted the largest share of in-country survey costs (74%), followed by training of survey teams (11%). The main drivers of in-country survey costs were personnel (49%) and transportation (44%). Global support expenditure for all surveyed districts amounted to $5.1m, which included grant management, epidemiological support, and data stewardship.CONCLUSION: This study provides the most extensive analysis of the cost of conducting trachoma prevalence surveys to date. The findings can aid planning and budgeting for future trachoma surveys required to measure the impact of trachoma elimination activities. Furthermore, the results of this study can also be used as a cost basis for other disease mapping programmes, where disease or context-specific survey cost data are not available. labels: #Communicable Disease Control#Epidemiological Monitoring#Health Care Costs#Humans#Topography, Medical#Trachoma'
b'Global declines in insects have sparked wide interest among scientists, politicians, and the general public. Loss of insect diversity and abundance is expected to provoke cascading effects on food webs and to jeopardize ecosystem services. Our understanding of the extent and underlying causes of this decline is based on the abundance of single species or taxonomic groups only, rather than changes in insect biomass which is more relevant for ecological functioning. Here, we used a standardized protocol to measure total insect biomass using Malaise traps, deployed over 27 years in 63 nature protection areas in Germany (96 unique location-year combinations) to infer on the status and trend of local entomofauna. Our analysis estimates a seasonal decline of 76%, and mid-summer decline of 82% in flying insect biomass over the 27 years of study. We show that this decline is apparent regardless of habitat type, while changes in weather, land use, and habitat characteristics cannot explain this overall decline. This yet unrecognized loss of insect biomass must be taken into account in evaluating declines in abundance of species depending on insects as a food source, and ecosystem functioning in the European landscape. labels: #Animals#Biomass#Conservation of Natural Resources#Flight, Animal#Insecta#Models, Theoretical#Sample Size#Seasons#Time Factors'
b'Why regeneration does not occur in mammals remains elusive. In lower vertebrates, epimorphic regeneration of the limb is directed by the wound epidermis, which controls blastema formation to promote regrowth of the appendage. Herein, we report that knockout (KO) or inhibition of Apoptosis Signal-regulated Kinase-1 (ASK1), also known as mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5 (MAP3K5), after full thickness ear punch in mice prolongs keratinocyte activation within the wound epidermis and promotes regeneration of auricular cartilage. Histological analysis showed the ASK1 KO ears displayed enhanced protein markers associated with blastema formation, hole closure and regeneration of auricular cartilage. At seven days after punch, the wound epidermis morphology was markedly different in the KO, showing a thickened stratum corneum with rounded cell morphology and a reduction of both the granular cell layer and decreased expression of filament aggregating protein. In addition, cytokeratin 6 was expressed in the stratum spinosum and granulosum. Topical application of inhibitors of ASK1 (NQDI-1), the upstream ASK1 activator, calcium activated mitogen kinase 2 (KN93), or the downstream target, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SP600125) also resulted in enhanced regeneration; whereas inhibition of the other downstream target, the p38 \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 isoforms, (SB203580) had no effect. The results of this investigation indicate ASK1 inhibition prolongs keratinocyte and blastemal cell activation leading to ear regeneration. labels: #Animals#Aporphines#Basement Membrane#Biomarkers#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Differentiation#Ear Cartilage#Epidermis#Epithelium#Isoenzymes#JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Keratinocytes#MAP Kinase Kinase Kinase 5#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Quinolines#Regeneration#Wounds and Injuries#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases'
b"The clinical significance of Virchow Robin spaces (VRS) in inflammatory brain disorders, especially in multiple sclerosis (MS), is still undefined. We analysed enlarged VRS (eVRS) by means of phase sensitive inversion recovery (PSIR) MRI sequence and investigated their association with inflammation or brain atrophy, and to clinical or physical disability. Forty-three MS patients (21 clinically isolated syndrome suggestive of MS [CIS], 15 RRMS, 7 progressive [PMS]) and 10 healthy controls (HC) were studied. 3DT1, 3DFLAIR and 2DPSIR images were obtained with a 3T MRI scanner. eVRS number and volume were calculated by manual segmentation (ITK-SNAP). Freesurfer was used to assess brain parenchymal fraction (BPF). All patients underwent clinical (EDSS) and cognitive (Rao's BRB and DKEFS) evaluation. eVRS number and volume resulted significantly higher on 2D-PSIR compared to both 3D-T1 (p<0.001) and 3D-FLAIR (p<0.001) and were significantly increased in CIS compared to HC (p<0.05), in PMS and RRMS compared to CIS (p<0.001) and in male versus female patients (p<0.05). eVRS volume increased significantly with disease duration (r = 0.6) but did not correlate with EDSS. eVRS significantly correlated with SPARTd (r = -0.47) and DKEFSfs (r = -0.46), especially when RRMS and PMS were merged in a single group (r = 0.89, p = 0.002 and r = 0.66, p = 0.009 respectively), while no correlation was found with BPF (r = 0.3), gadolinium-enhancing lesions (r = 0.2) and WMT2 lesion volume (r = 0.2). 2DPSIR allowed the detection of an impressive higher number of eVRS compared to 3DT1 and 3DFLAIR. eVRS associate with SPARTd and DKEFSfs failure in relapse-onset MS, suggesting they may contribute to cognitive decline in MS. labels: #Adult#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cognitive Dysfunction#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Multiple Sclerosis#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting"
b'PURPOSE: To classify patients with orthotopic neobladder based on urodynamic parameters using cluster analysis and to characterize the voiding function of each group.MATERIALS AND METHODS: From January 2012 to November 2015, 142 patients with bladder cancer underwent radical cystectomy and Studer neobladder reconstruction at our institute. Of the 142 patients, 103 with complete urodynamic data and information on urinary functional outcomes were included in this study. K-means clustering was performed with urodynamic parameters which included maximal cystometric capacity, residual volume, maximal flow rate, compliance, and detrusor pressure at maximum flow rate. Three groups emerged by cluster analysis. Urodynamic parameters and urinary function outcomes were compared between three groups.RESULTS: Group 1 (n = 44) had ideal urodynamic parameters with a mean maximal bladder capacity of 513.3 ml and mean residual urine volume of 33.1 ml. Group 2 (n = 42) was characterized by small bladder capacity with low compliance. Patients in group 2 had higher rates of daytime incontinence and nighttime incontinence than patients in group 1. Group 3 (n = 17) was characterized by large residual urine volume with high compliance. When we examined gender differences in urodynamics and functional outcomes, residual urine volume and the rate of daytime incontinence were only marginally significant. However, females were significantly more likely to belong to group 2 or 3 (P = 0.003). In multivariate analysis to identify factors associated with group 1 which has the most ideal urodynamic pattern, age (OR 0.95, P = 0.017) and male gender (OR 7.57, P = 0.003) were identified as significant factors.CONCLUSIONS: While patients with ileal neobladder present with various voiding symptoms, three urodynamic patterns were identified by cluster analysis. Approximately half of patients had ideal urodynamic parameters. The other two groups were characterized by large residual urine and small capacity bladder with low compliance. Young age and male gender appear to have a favorable impact on urodynamic and voiding outcomes in patients undergoing orthotopic neobladder reconstruction. labels: #Aged#Cluster Analysis#Female#Humans#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder#Urodynamics'
b"Candidemia acquired outside critical care or hematological areas has received much attention in recent years; however, data on candidemia in surgical departments are very scarce. Our objectives were to describe episodes of candidemia diagnosed in surgical wards and to compare them with episodes occurring in medical wards. We performed a post hoc analysis of a prospective, multicenter study implemented in Spain during 2010-2011 (CANDIPOP project). Of the 752 episodes of candidemia, 369 (49.1%) occurred in patients admitted to surgical wards (165, 21.9%) or medical wards (204, 27.2%). Clinical characteristics associated with surgical patients were solid tumor as underlying disease, recent surgery, indwelling CVC, and parenteral nutrition. Candidemia was more commonly related to a CVC in the surgical than in the medical wards. The CVC was removed more frequently and early management was more appropriate within 48 hours of blood sampling in the surgical patients. Overall, 30-day mortality in the surgical departments was significantly lower than in medical wards (37.7% vs. 15.8%, p<0.001). Multivariate analysis revealed admission to a surgical ward and appropriate early management of candidemia as factors independently associated with a better outcome. We found that approximately 50% of episodes of candidemia occurred in non-hematological patients outside the ICU and that clinical outcome was better in patients admitted to surgical wards than in those hospitalized in medical wards. These findings can be explained by the lower severity of underlying disease, prompt administration of antifungal therapy, and central venous catheter removal. labels: #Adult#Aged#Candidemia#Demography#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Patients' Rooms#Risk Factors#Surgical Procedures, Operative#Treatment Outcome"
b"Little is known about the cat's (Felis silvestris catus) need for human contact, although it is generally believed that cats are more independent pets than e.g. dogs. In this study, we investigated the effect of time left alone at home on cat behaviour (e.g. social and distress-related) before, during and after separation from their owner. Fourteen privately owned cats (single-housed) were each subjected to two treatments: the cat was left alone in their home environment for 30 min (T0.5) and for 4 h (T4). There were no differences between treatments in the behaviour of the cat (or owner) before owner departure, nor during the first 5 min of separation. During separation, cats were lying down resting proportionally less (T = 22.5, P = 0.02) in T0.5 (0.27\xc2\xb10.1 (mean\xc2\xb1SE)) compared to in T4 (0.58\xc2\xb10.08), probably due to a similar duration of higher activity early in the separation phase in both treatments. Comparisons of the time interval (min 20-25) in both treatments indicated no differences across treatments, which supports such an explanation. Towards the end of the separation phase (the last two 5-min intervals of separation in both treatments), no differences were observed in the cats' behaviour, indicating that cats were unaffected by separation length. At reunion however, cats purred more (T = 10.5, P = 0.03) and stretched their body more (T = 17, P = 0.04) after a longer duration of separation (T4:0.05\xc2\xb10.02; 0.03\xc2\xb10.01; T0.5: 0.01\xc2\xb10.007; 0.008\xc2\xb10.003). Also, owners initiated more verbal contact (T = 33.5, P = 0.04) after 4 h (0.18\xc2\xb10.05) compared to after 30 min (0.12\xc2\xb10.03). There was no evidence of any correlations between the level of purring or body stretching by the cat and verbal contact by the owner implying that the behavioural expressions seen in the cats are independent of the owner's behaviour. Hence, it seemed as cats coped well with being left alone, but they were affected by the time they were left alone, since they expressed differences in behaviour when the owner returned home. The increased level of social contact initiated by the cats after a longer duration of separation indicates a rebound of contact-seeking behaviour, implying that the owner is an important part of the cat's social environment. labels: #Animals#Bonding, Human-Pet#Cats#Confidence Intervals#Female#Humans#Male#Ownership#Pets"
b'OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the association of knee osteoarthritis (OA) with comorbidities and health-related quality of life (HRQOL).METHODS: A total of 8,907 (weighted n = 13,687,058) participants aged \xe2\x89\xa550 years who had undergone knee radiography were selected from the 2010-2012 Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. OA was classified into four subgroups based on the presence or absence of pain and radiographic OA (ROA): non-OA (Pain-/ROA-), pain only (Pain+/ROA-), ROA only (Pain-/ROA+), and painful ROA (Pain+/ROA+). ROA was defined as Kellgren-Lawrence grade \xe2\x89\xa5 2. HRQOL measurements including EuroQOL visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) scores and the five dimensions and summary index of the EuroQOL-5 dimension (EQ-5D index) were also analyzed. Multivariable logistic regression and linear regression analyses were performed.RESULTS: After adjustment for socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics, cardiovascular disease, malignancy, and other comorbidities were not significantly associated with OA. Pain only and painful ROA were each significantly associated with limitations in physical activity (odds ratio (OR) 2.66, 95% CI 2.07-3.44, p<0.001 and OR 2.83, 95% CI 2.25-3.58, p<0.001, respectively), lower EQ-VAS (\xce\xb2-coefficient = -10.95, p<0.001 and \xce\xb2-coefficient = -9.75, p<0.001, respectively), and EQ-5D index (\xce\xb2-coefficient = -0.10, p<0.001 and \xce\xb2-coefficient = -0.13, p<0.001) compared with the non-OA group, whereas ROA only was not associated with limitations in physical activity or lower HRQOL score.CONCLUSIONS: Comorbidities were not significantly associated with knee OA after adjustment. Knee OA was associated with physical activity and HRQOL. Painful knee OA, with or without ROA, was more strongly associated with decreased physical activity and lower quality of life than ROA without pain. labels: #Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Comorbidity#Exercise#Female#Humans#Knee Joint#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Nutrition Surveys#Odds Ratio#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Quality of Life#Republic of Korea'
b'There is some dispute regarding the role of experience in the development of dogs\xc2\xb4 socio-cognitive abilities in their interaction with people. We sought to provide new evidence to this debate by comparing dogs with contrasting levels of experience with humans, in a task involving the discrimination of human generous and selfish attitudes. To this end, we compared the performance of adult family dogs against that of adult shelter dogs and puppies living in people\xc2\xb4s homes. In training trials, the generous experimenter (G) signaled the bowl with food and allowed the dog to eat, whereas the selfish experimenter (S) also signaled the baited bowl, but she/he ate the food before the dog could have access to it. Then, subjects were allowed to freely choose between G and S in the choice test. The main finding was that adult subjects (both family and shelter dogs) developed a preference for G over S, but puppies did not. We conclude that the quality and/or quantity of everyday-contact with people did not affect the discrimination of human attitudes in the present protocol, but the amount of experience with people (in years) did matter. Finally, we discuss the relative role of domestication and ontogeny in the development of dogs\xc2\xb4 socio-cognitive abilities. labels: #Animals#Attitude#Behavior, Animal#Choice Behavior#Dogs#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Recognition (Psychology)'
b'The adoptive transfer of labelled cell populations has been an essential tool to determine and quantify cellular dynamics. The experimental methods to label and track cells over time range from fluorescent dyes over congenic markers towards single-cell labelling techniques, such as genetic barcodes. While these methods have been widely used to quantify cell differentiation and division dynamics, the extent to which the applied labelling strategy actually affects the quantification of the dynamics has not been determined so far. This is especially important in situations where measurements can only be obtained at a single time point, as e.g. due to organ harvest. To this end, we studied the appropriateness of various labelling strategies as characterised by the number of different labels and the initial number of cells per label to quantify cellular dynamics. We simulated adoptive transfer experiments in systems of various complexity that assumed either homoeostatic cellular turnover or cell expansion dynamics involving various steps of cell differentiation and proliferation. Re-sampling cells at a single time point, we determined the ability of different labelling strategies to recover the underlying kinetics. Our results indicate that cell transition and expansion rates are differently affected by experimental shortcomings, such as loss of cells during transfer or sampling, dependent on the labelling strategy used. Furthermore, uniformly distributed labels in the transferred population generally lead to more robust and less biased results than non-equal label sizes. In addition, our analysis indicates that certain labelling approaches incorporate a systematic bias for the identification of complex cell expansion dynamics. labels: #Cell Differentiation#Cell Proliferation#Cells#Homeostasis#Models, Biological#Staining and Labeling#Time Factors'
b"BACKGROUND: Antivenom is the treatment of choice for snakebite, which annually kills an estimated 32,000 people in sub-Saharan Africa and leaves approximately 100,000 survivors with permanent physical disabilities that exert a considerable socioeconomic burden. Over the past two decades, the high costs of the most polyspecifically-effective antivenoms have sequentially reduced demand, commercial manufacturing incentives and production volumes that have combined to create a continent-wide vacuum of effective snakebite therapy. This was quickly filled with new, less expensive antivenoms, many of which are of untested efficacy. Some of these successfully marketed antivenoms for Africa are inappropriately manufactured with venoms from non-African snakes and are dangerously ineffective. The uncertain efficacy of available antivenoms exacerbates the complexity of designing intervention measures to reduce the burden of snakebite in sub-Saharan Africa. The objective of this study was to preclinically determine the ability of antivenoms available in Kenya to neutralise the lethal effects of venoms from the most medically important snakes in East Africa.METHODS: We collected venom samples from the most medically important snakes in East Africa and determined their toxicity in a mouse model. Using a 'gold standard' comparison protocol, we preclinically tested the comparative venom-neutralising efficacy of four antivenoms available in Kenya with two antivenoms of clinically-proven efficacy. To explain the variant efficacies of these antivenoms we tested the IgG-venom binding characteristics of each antivenom using in vitro IgG titre, avidity and venom-protein specificity assays. We also measured the IgG concentration of each antivenom.FINDINGS: None of the six antivenoms are preclinically effective, at the doses tested, against all of the most medically important snakes of the region. The very limited snake polyspecific efficacy of two locally available antivenoms is of concern. In vitro assays of the abilities of 'test' antivenom IgGs to bind venom proteins were not substantially different from that of the 'gold standard' antivenoms. The least effective antivenoms had the lowest IgG content/vial.CONCLUSIONS: Manufacture-stated preclinical efficacy statements guide decision making by physicians and antivenom purchasers in sub-Saharan Africa. This is because of the lack of both clinical data on the efficacy of most of the many antivenoms used to treat patients and independent preclinical assessment. Our preclinical efficacy assessment of antivenoms available in Kenya identifies important limitations for two of the most commonly-used antivenoms, and that no antivenom is preclinically effective against all the regionally important snakes. The potential implication to snakebite treatment is of serious concern in Kenya and elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa, and underscores the dilemma physicians face, the need for clinical data on antivenom efficacy and the medical and societal value of establishing independent preclinical antivenom-efficacy testing facilities throughout the continent. labels: #Africa, Eastern#Animals#Antivenins#Drug Evaluation, Preclinical#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Kenya#Lethal Dose 50#Mice#Protein Binding#Snake Bites#Snake Venoms#Snakes"
b'Cellular responses to stress stem from a variety of different mechanisms, including translation arrest and relocation of the translationally repressed mRNAs to ribonucleoprotein particles like stress granules (SGs) and processing bodies (PBs). Here, we examine the role of PKA in the S. cerevisiae heat shock response. Under mild heat stress Tpk3 aggregates and promotes aggregation of eIF4G, Pab1 and eIF4E, whereas severe heat stress leads to the formation of PBs and SGs that contain both Tpk2 and Tpk3 and a larger 48S translation initiation complex. Deletion of TPK2 or TPK3 impacts upon the translational response to heat stress of several mRNAs including CYC1, HSP42, HSP30 and ENO2. TPK2 deletion leads to a robust translational arrest, an increase in SGs/PBs aggregation and translational hypersensitivity to heat stress, whereas TPK3 deletion represses SGs/PBs formation, translational arrest and response for the analyzed mRNAs. Therefore, this work provides evidence indicating that Tpk2 and Tpk3 have opposing roles in translational adaptation during heat stress, and highlight how the same signaling pathway can be regulated to generate strikingly distinct physiological outputs. labels: #Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinase Catalytic Subunits#Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinases#Cytoplasmic Granules#Heat-Shock Response#Protein Aggregates#Protein Biosynthesis#Protein Subunits#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Stress, Physiological#Subcellular Fractions'
b'BACKGROUND: FSS have been suggested to follow activation of the immune system, triggered by herpes virus infections. The aim of this study was to find out whether herpes virus infections were associated with the experience of FSS in adolescents, and whether this association was mediated by hsCRP, as a general marker of immune activation.METHODS: This study was performed in TRAILS, a large prospective population cohort of 2230 adolescents (mean age: 16.1 years, SD = .66, 53.4% girls). FSS were assessed using the somatic complaints subscale of the Youth Self-Report. FSS were analyzed as total scores and divided in two group clusters based on previous studies in this cohort. Levels of hsCRP and antibody levels to the herpes viruses HSV1, HSV2, CMV, EBV and HHV6 were assessed in blood samples at age 16. Also a value for pathogen burden was created adding the number of viruses the adolescents were seropositive for. Multiple regression analysis with bootstrapping was used to analyze the association between viral antibodies and pathogen burden, hsCRP and FSS scores.RESULTS: Antibody levels and pathogen burden were not associated with FSS total scores or FSS scores in both symptom groups. hsCRP was associated with the total FSS score (B = .02, 95% CI: .004 to .028, p = .01) and FSS score in the symptom group of headache and gastrointestinal complaints (B = .02, 95% CI: .001 to .039, p = .04).CONCLUSION: Our study showed no association between herpes virus infections and FSS in general or specific FSS symptom clusters. A role for inflammatory processes in FSS development was supported by the significant association we found between hsCRP levels and FSS, especially in the symptom group of headache and gastrointestinal complaints. labels: #Adolescent#Antibodies, Viral#C-Reactive Protein#Female#Herpesviridae#Herpesviridae Infections#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies'
b"Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal genetic disease caused by an absence of the 427kD muscle-specific dystrophin isoform. Utrophin is the autosomal homolog of dystrophin and when overexpressed, can compensate for the absence of dystrophin and rescue the dystrophic phenotype of the mdx mouse model of DMD. Utrophin is subject to miRNA mediated repression by several miRNAs including let-7c. Inhibition of utrophin: let-7c interaction is predicted to 'repress the repression' and increase utrophin expression. We developed and tested the ability of an oligonucleotide, composed of 2'-O-methyl modified bases on a phosphorothioate backbone, to anneal to the utrophin 3'UTR and prevent let-7c miRNA binding, thereby upregulating utrophin expression and improving the dystrophic phenotype in vivo. Suppression of utrophin: let-7c interaction using bi-weekly intraperitoneal injections of let7 site blocking oligonucleotides (SBOs) for 1 month in the mdx mouse model for DMD, led to increased utrophin expression along with improved muscle histology, decreased fibrosis and increased specific force. The functional improvement of dystrophic muscle achieved using let7-SBOs suggests a novel utrophin upregulation-based therapeutic strategy for DMD. labels: #Animals#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Male#Mice, Inbred mdx#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne#Oligonucleotides#Protein Binding#Reproducibility of Results#Up-Regulation#Utrophin"
b'BACKGROUND: Postoperative complications are still a major concern after liver resection (LR). Systemic inflammation and deregulated reactive oxygen species during major abdominal surgery may impair outcome after hepatectomy.METHODS: Patients undergoing LR were included in this study (n = 40). Oxidative stress (OS) was measured peri- and post-operatively as static oxidation-reduction potential markers (sORP) and antioxidant capacity ORP (cORP) by using the RedoxSYS Diagnostic system. Furthermore, Th1- and Th2-specific cytokines were assessed.RESULTS: Whereas there was no significant change in systemic sORP during LR and in the early postoperative course, there was a substantial decrease of cORP immediately post-surgery, and on postoperative days 1 and 3 (p<0.001). OS response was tightly regulated, as there was a significant correlation between sORP and cORP (p<0.0001; R2:0.457). An increase of OS (sORP) after LR of more than 3 mV was predictive for severe postoperative complications (53.8% vs. 12.5; p = 0.017). There was a significantly higher IL-2 (p = 0.006) and IL-5 (p = 0.001) increase during hepatectomy in patients who developed a severe morbidity.CONCLUSION: Antioxidant capacity remained stable during LR but dropped during the post-surgical period, suggesting a consumption of antioxidants to maintain OS within healthy range. Severe postoperative complications were associated with a pronounced inflammatory response during surgery. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cytokines#Female#Hepatectomy#Humans#Inflammation#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidative Stress#Postoperative Complications'
b"Post-abortion family planning (PAFP) has been proposed as a key strategy to decrease unintended pregnancy and repeat induced abortions. However, the accessibility and quality of PAFP services remain a challenge in many countries including China where more than 10 million unintended pregnancies occur each year. Most of these unwanted pregnancies end in repeated induced abortions. This paper aims to explore service providers' perceptions of the current situation regarding family planning and abortion service needs, provision, utilization, and the feasibility and acceptability of high quality PAFP in the future. Qualitative methods, including in-depth interviews and focus group discussions, were used with family planning policy makers, health managers, and service providers. Three provinces-Zhejiang, Hubei and Yunnan-were purposively selected, representing high, medium and relatively undeveloped areas of China. A total of fifty-three in-depth interviews and ten focus-group discussions were conducted and analysed thematically. Increased numbers of abortions among young, unmarried women were perceived as a major reason for high numbers of abortions. Participants attributed this to increasing socio-cultural acceptability of premarital sex, and simultaneously, lack of understanding or awareness of contraception among young people. The majority of service stakeholders acknowledged that free family planning services were neither targeted at, nor accessible to unmarried people. The extent of PAFP provision is variable and limited. However, service providers expressed willingness and enthusiasm towards providing PAFP services in the future. Three main considerations were expressed regarding the feasibility of developing and implementing PAFP services: policy support, human resources, and financial resources. The study indicated that key service stakeholders show demand for and perceive considerable opportunities to develop PAFP in China. However, changes are needed to enable the systematic development of high quality PAFP, including actively targeting young and unmarried people in service provision, obtaining policy support and increasing the investment of human and financial resources. labels: #Abortion, Induced#Attitude of Health Personnel#China#Family Planning Policy#Family Planning Services#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans"
b'Environmental acclimation is important episode in wildlife occupation of the high-altitude Tibetan Plateau (TP). Transcriptome-wide studies on thermal acclimation mechanism in fish species are rarely revealed in Tibetan Plateau fish at high altitude. Thus, we used mRNA and miRNA transcriptome sequencing to investigate regulation of thermal acclimation in larval Tibetan naked carp, Gymnocypris przewalskii. We first remodeled the regulation network of mRNA and miRNA in thermal acclimation, and then identified differential expression of miRNAs and target mRNAs enriched in metabolic and digestive pathways. Interestingly, we identified two candidate genes contributed to normal skeletal development. The altered expression of these gene groups could potentially be associated with the developmental issues of deformity and induced larval death. Our results have three important implications: first, these findings provide strong evidences to support our hypothesis that G. przewalskii possess ability to build heat-tolerance against the controversial issue. Second, this study shows that transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulations are extensively involved in thermal acclimation. Third, the integrated mRNA and microRNA transcriptome analyses provide a large number of valuable genetic resources for future studies on environmental stress response in G. przewalskii and as a case study in Tibetan Schizothoracine fish. labels: #Acclimatization#Animals#Bone Development#Carps#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Regulatory Networks#Heat-Shock Response#Larva#Male#MicroRNAs#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reproducibility of Results#Sequence Analysis, RNA#Temperature'
b"OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact and cost-benefit of clinical pharmacist interventions on inappropriate use of prophylactic acid suppressant in hepatobiliary surgical patients in a Chinese tertiary hospital.METHODS: A retro-prospective intervention study of patients undergoing elective operations was performed in the Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery of the Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical University. Patients admitted from October to December 2015 and from October to December 2016, served as the pre-intervention and the post-intervention group, respectively. Clinical pharmacist interventions in the post-intervention group included real-time monitoring medical records and recommending that surgeons prescribe prophylactic acid suppressants according to the criteria established by the hospital administration. Then, the clinical outcomes of post-intervention group were compared with the pre-intervention group which lacked pharmacist interventions. In addition, cost-benefit analysis was conducted to determine the economic effects of implementing the clinical pharmacist interventions in acid suppressant prophylaxis in perioperative period.RESULTS: Clinical pharmacist interventions significantly decreased the rate of the use of no indications for prophylactic acid suppressant and of the cases of inappropriate drug selection, dose, route, replacement and prolonged duration of prophylaxis (P<0.05 or P<0.001), resulting in significant increase by 10.65% in the percentage of cases adhering to all the criteria (P<0.001). Moreover, significant reductions were found in the average usage quantity (P<0.001), mean cost (P = 0.03) and mean duration (P<0.001) of prophylaxis acid suppressant. The ratio of the mean cost savings for acid suppressants to the mean cost of pharmacist time was 13.61:1.CONCLUSION: The clinical pharmacist's real-time interventions facilitated the rational use of prophylactic acid suppressant and resulted in favorable economic outcomes in hepatobiliary surgery. labels: #Adult#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Elective Surgical Procedures#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Liver#Male#Medication Errors#Middle Aged#Patients#Pharmacists#Pharmacy Service, Hospital#Tertiary Care Centers"
b'Current post-exposure prophylaxis for rabies virus infection has several limitations in terms of supply, cost, safety, and efficacy. Attempts to replace human or equine rabies immune globulins (HRIG or ERIG) have been made by several companies and institutes. We developed potent monoclonal antibodies to neutralize a broad spectrum of rabies viruses by screening hybridomas received from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Two kinds of chimeric human antibodies (chimeric #7 and #17) were constructed by cloning the variable regions from selected hybridomas and the constant region of a human antibody. Two antibodies were bound to antigenic site III and I/IV, respectively, and were able to neutralize 51 field isolates of rabies virus that were isolated at different times and places such as Asia, Africa, North America, South America, and Australia. These two antibodies neutralize rabies viruses with high efficacy in an in vivo test using Syrian hamster and mouse models and show low risk for adverse immunogenicity. labels: #Africa#Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Asia#Australia#Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Disease Models, Animal#Horses#Humans#Hybridomas#Mesocricetus#Mice#North America#Rabies#Rabies virus#South America#United States'
b"In vivo physiological measurement is a major challenge in modern science and technology, as is environment conservation at the global scale. Proper toxicological testing of widely produced mixtures of chemicals is a necessary step in the development of new products, allowing us to minimize the human impact on aquatic ecosystems. However, currently available bioassay-based techniques utilizing small aquatic organisms such as fish embryos for toxicity testing do not allow assessing in time the changes in physiological parameters in the same individual. In this study, we introduce microencapsulated fluorescent probes as a promising tool for in vivo monitoring of internal pH variation in zebrafish embryos. The pH alteration identified under stress conditions demonstrates the applicability of the microencapsulated fluorescent probes for the repeated analysis of the embryo's physiological state. The proposed approach has strong potential to simultaneously measure a range of physiological characteristics using a set of specific fluorescent probes and to finally bring toxicological bioassays and related research fields to a new level of effectiveness and sensitivity. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Calibration#Drug Compounding#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Environmental Monitoring#Fluorescent Dyes#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Molecular Probes#Zebrafish"
b'The three dimensional (3D) reconstruction of movement from videos is widely utilized as a method for spatial analysis of movement. Several approaches exist for a 3D reconstruction of movement using 2D video projection, most of them require the use of at least two cameras as well as the application of relatively complex algorithms. While a few approaches also exist for 3D reconstruction of movement with a single camera, they are not widely implemented due to tedious and complicated methods of calibration. Here we propose a simple method that allows for a 3D reconstruction of movement by using a single projection and three calibration markers. Such approach is made possible by tracking the change in diameter of a moving spherical marker within a 2D projection. In order to test our model, we compared kinematic results obtained with this model to those with the commonly used approach of two cameras and Direct Linear Transformation (DLT). Our results show that such approach appears to be in line with the DLT method for 3D reconstruction and kinematic analysis. The simplicity of this method may render it approachable for both clinical use as well as in uncontrolled environments. labels: #Adult#Biomechanical Phenomena#Female#Fiducial Markers#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Movement#Photography'
b'Gold nanorods (GNRs) are increasingly being investigated for cancer theranostics as they possess features which lend themselves in equal measures as contrast agents and catalysts for photothermal therapy. Their optical absorption spectral peak wavelength is determined by their size and shape. Photothermal therapy using GNRs is typically established using near infrared light as this allows sufficient penetration into the tumour matrix. Continuous wave (CW) lasers are the most commonly applied source of near infrared irradiation on GNRs for tumour photothermal therapy. It is perceived that large tumours may require fractionated or prolonged irradiation. However the true efficacy of repeated or protracted CW irradiation on tumour sites using the original sample of GNRs remains unclear. In this study spectroscopy and transmission electron microscopy are used to demonstrate that GNRs reshape both in vitro and in vivo after CW irradiation, which reduces their absorption efficiency. These changes were sustained throughout and beyond the initial period of irradiation, resulting from a spectral blue-shift and a considerable diminution in the absorption peak of GNRs. Solid subcutaneous tumours in immunodeficient BALB/c mice were subjected to GNRs and analysed with electron microscopy pre- and post-CW laser irradiation. This phenomenon of thermally induced GNR reshaping can occur at relatively low bulk temperatures, well below the bulk melting point of gold. Photoacoustic monitoring of GNR reshaping is also evaluated as a potential clinical aid to determine GNR absorption and reshaping during photothermal therapy. Aggregation of particles was coincidentally observed following CW irradiation, which would further diminish the subsequent optical absorption capacity of irradiated GNRs. It is thus established that sequential or prolonged applications of CW laser will not confer any additional photothermal effect on tumours due to significant attenuations in the peak optical absorption properties of GNRs following primary laser irradiation. labels: #Animals#Gold#Lasers#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Nanotubes#Photoacoustic Techniques#Temperature'
b"This longitudinal study examined whether mothers' and fathers' depressive symptoms predict, independently and interactively, children's emotional and behavioural problems. It also examined bi-directional associations between parents' expressed emotion constituents (parents' child-directed positive and critical comments) and children's emotional and behavioural problems. At time 1, the sample consisted of 160 families in which 50 mothers and 40 fathers had depression according to the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV. Children's mean age at Time 1 was 3.9 years (SD = 0.8). Families (n = 106) were followed up approximately 16 months later (Time 2). Expressed emotion constituents were assessed using the Preschool Five Minute Speech Sample. In total, 144 mothers and 158 fathers at Time 1 and 93 mothers and 105 fathers at Time 2 provided speech samples. Fathers' depressive symptoms were concurrently associated with more child emotional problems when mothers had higher levels of depressive symptoms. When controlling for important confounders (children's gender, baseline problems, mothers' depressive symptoms and parents' education and age), fathers' depressive symptoms independently predicted higher levels of emotional and behavioural problems in their children over time. There was limited evidence for a bi-directional relationship between fathers' positive comments and change in children's behavioural problems over time. Unexpectedly, there were no bi-directional associations between parents' critical comments and children's outcomes. We conclude that the study provides evidence to support a whole family approach to prevention and intervention strategies for children's mental health and parental depression. labels: #Child#Child Behavior#Depression#Expressed Emotion#Fathers#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Mothers#Parents"
b"This study aims to compare the outputs of the waist-worn Active style Pro HJA-350IT (ASP; used in studies with Asian populations), the waist-worn ActiGragh\xe2\x84\xa2GT3X+ using the normal filter (GT3X+) and the thigh-worn activPAL3 (AP) in assessing adults' sedentary behaviour (total sedentary time, number of breaks) under free-living conditions. Fifty healthy workers wore the three monitors simultaneously during their waking hours on two days, including a work day and a non-work day. Valid data were at least 10 hours of wearing time, and the differences between monitors on the sedentary outputs using the AP as criterion measurement were analyzed by ANOVA. The number of participants who had complete valid data for work day and non-work day was 47 and 44, respectively. Total sedentary time and breaks estimated by the AP were respectively 466.5 \xc2\xb1 146.8 min and 64.3 \xc2\xb1 24.9 times on the work day and 497.7 \xc2\xb1 138.3 min and 44.6 \xc2\xb1 15.4 times on the non-work day. In total sedentary time, the ASP estimated 29.7 min (95%CI = 7.9 to 51.5) significantly shorter than the AP on the work day but showed no significant difference against the AP on the non-work day. The GT3X+ estimated 80.1 min (54.6 to 105.6) and 52.3 (26.4 to 78.2) significantly longer than the AP on the work day and the non-work day, respectively. For the number of breaks from sedentary time, on both days, the ASP and the GT3X+ estimated significantly more than the AP: 14.1 to 15.8 times (6.3 to 22.5) for the ASP and 27.7 to 28.8 times (21.8 to 34.8) for the GT3X+. Compared to the AP as the criterion, the ASP can underestimate total sedentary time and the GT3X+ can overestimate it, and more so at the lower levels of sedentary time. For breaks from sedentary time, compared to the AP, both the GT3X+ the ASP can overestimate. labels: #Actigraphy#Adult#Aged#Asia#Female#Humans#Male#Sedentary Lifestyle#Time Factors#Young Adult"
b'The repeated replacement method (RRM) is a Lagrangian meshfree method which we have previously applied to the Euler equations for compressible fluid flow. In this paper we present new enhancements to RRM, and we apply the enhanced method to both linear and nonlinear elasticity. We compare the results of ten test problems to those of analytic solvers, to demonstrate that RRM can successfully simulate these elastic systems without many of the requirements of traditional numerical methods such as numerical derivatives, equation system solvers, or Riemann solvers. We also show the relationship between error and computational effort for RRM on these systems, and compare RRM to other methods to highlight its strengths and weaknesses. And to further explain the two elastic equations used in the paper, we demonstrate the mathematical procedure used to create Riemann and Sedov-Taylor solvers for them, and detail the numerical techniques needed to embody those solvers in code. labels: #Computer Simulation#Elasticity#Hydrodynamics#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Theoretical'
b'A feature of mature Plasmodium falciparum parasitized red blood cells is their ability to bind surface molecules of the microvascular endothelium via the parasite-derived surface protein Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1). This ligand is associated with the cytoadherence pathology observed in severe malaria. As pRBC treated with effective anti-malarial drugs are still able to cytoadhere, there is therefore a need to find an adjunct treatment that can inhibit and reverse the adhesion process. One semi-synthetic, sulfated polysaccharide has been identified that is capable of inhibiting and reversing sequestration of pRBC on endothelial cells in vitro under physiological flow conditions. Furthermore, it exhibits low toxicity in the intrinsic (APTT assay) and extrinsic (PT assay) clotting pathways, as well as exhibiting minimal effects on cell (HUVEC) viability (MTT proliferation assay). These findings suggest that carbohydrate-based anti-adhesive candidates may provide potential leads for therapeutics for severe malaria. labels: #Antimalarials#Cell Adhesion#Cell Proliferation#Endothelial Cells#Erythrocytes#Glycosaminoglycans#Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells#Humans#Malaria, Falciparum#Plasmodium falciparum#Protozoan Proteins'
b'Nest boxes for predators in agricultural regions are an easily implemented tool to improve local habitat quality with potential benefits for both conservation and agriculture. The potential for nest boxes to increase raptor populations in agricultural regions is of particular interest given their positions as top predators. This study examined the effects of cherry orchard nest boxes on the local breeding population of a declining species, the American Kestrel (Falco sparverius), in a fruit-growing region of Michigan. During the 2013-2016 study, we added a total of 23 new nest boxes in addition to 24 intact boxes installed previously; kestrels used up to 100% of our new boxes each season. We conducted temporally-replicated surveys along four roadside transects divided into 1.6 km \xc3\x97 500 m sites. We developed a multi-season occupancy model under a Bayesian framework and found that nest boxes had strong positive effects on first-year site occupancy, site colonization, and site persistence probabilities. The estimated number of occupied sites increased between 2013 and 2016, which correlated with the increase in number of sites with boxes. Kestrel detections decreased with survey date but were not affected by time of day or activity at the boxes themselves. These results indicate that nest boxes determined the presence of kestrels at our study sites and support the conclusion that the local kestrel population is likely limited by nest site availability. Furthermore, our results are highly relevant to the farmers on whose properties the boxes were installed, for we can conclude that installing a nest box in an orchard resulted in a high probability of kestrels occupying that orchard or the areas adjacent to it. labels: #Animals#Fruit#Geography#Michigan#Models, Theoretical#Nesting Behavior#Probability#Raptors#Seasons'
b"BACKGROUND: Malnutrition accounts for 45% of mortality in children under five years old, despite a global mobilization against chronic malnutrition. In Madagascar, the most recent data show that the prevalence of stunting in children under five years old is still around 47.4%. This study aimed to identify the determinants of stunting in children in rural areas of Moramanga and Morondava districts to target the main areas for intervention.METHODS: A case-control study was conducted in children aged from 6 to 59.9 months, in 2014-2015. We measured the height and weight of mothers and children and collected data on child, mother and household characteristics. One stool specimen was collected from each child for intestinal parasite identification. We used a multivariate logistic regression model to identify the determinants of stunting using backwards stepwise methods.RESULTS: We included 894 and 932 children in Moramanga and in Morondava respectively. Stunting was highly prevalent in both areas, being 52.8% and 40.0% for Moramanga and Morondava, respectively. Stunting was most associated with a specific age period (12mo to 35mo) in the two study sites. Infection with Trichuris trichiura (aOR: 2.4, 95% CI: 1.1-5.3) and those belonging to poorer households (aOR: 2.3, 95% CI: 1.6-3.4) were the major risk factors in Moramanga. In Morondava, children whose mother had activities outside the household (aOR: 1.7, 95% CI: 1.2-2.5) and those perceived to be small at birth (aOR: 1.6, 95% CI: 1.1-2.1) were more likely to be stunted, whereas adequate birth spacing (\xe2\x89\xa524months) appeared protective (aOR: 0.4, 95% CI: 0.3-0.7).CONCLUSION: Interventions that could improve children's growth in these two areas include poverty reduction, women's empowerment, public health programmes focusing on WASH and increasing acceptability, and increased coverage and quality of child/maternal health services. labels: #Animals#Case-Control Studies#Child, Preschool#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#Infant#Madagascar#Male#Models, Theoretical#Parasites#Poverty#Power (Psychology)#Public Health#Rural Population#Women"
b'We studied the effects of radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (RF-EMFs) exposure on neuronal functions of mice. Particularly, we focused on RF-EMF effects on synaptic vesicles (SVs), which store neurotransmitters at axon terminals or synaptic boutons. C57 BL/6 mice were exposed to 835 MHz RF-EMF (4.0 W/kg SAR, for 5 h daily) and alterations in SVs at presynaptic terminals in the cerebral cortex were determined. Ultrastructure of randomly selected cortical neurons was observed using typical electron microscopy and bio-high voltage electron microscopy (Bio-HVEM) methods, which enable the estimation of the numbers and size of SVs. The density of the SVs (number /10 \xce\xbcm2 or 40 \xce\xbcm3) was significantly decreased in the presynaptic boutons of cortical neurons after RF-EMF exposure. Furthermore, qPCR and immunoblotting analyses revealed that the expression of synapsins I/II (Syns I/II) genes and proteins were significantly decreased in the cortical neurons of RF-EMF exposed mice. The present study suggested that alteration of SVs and Syn levels may result in alterations of neurotransmitters in the cerebral cortex following RF-EMF exposure. labels: #Animals#Cerebral Cortex#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Electromagnetic Fields#Male#Mice#Neurons#Radio Waves#Synaptic Vesicles'
b'Osteocyte apoptosis is the first reaction to estrogen depletion, thereby stimulating osteoclastic bone resorption resulting in bone loss. We investigated the effects of two different risedronate (RIS) doses (high and low) on osteocyte apoptosis, osteoclast activity and bone loss in ovariectomized rats. Forty rats with ovariectomy (OVX) and sham ovariectomy (SHAM) were divided into 4 groups: 1) SHAM rats treated with saline (SHAM); 2) OVX rats treated with saline (OVX); 3) OVX rats treated with low-dose RIS (OVX-LR, 0.08 \xce\xbcg/kg/day); 4) OVX rats treated with high-dose RIS (OVX-HR, 0.8 \xce\xbcg/kg/day). All animals were sacrificed 90 days after surgery for the examinations of osteocyte apoptosis by caspase-3 staining, osteoclast activity by TRAP staining and bone volume by micro-CT scanning in lumbar vertebral cancellous bone. Both low and high dose RIS significantly reduced caspase-3 positive osteocytes, empty lacunae and TRAP positive osteoclasts in OVX rats. Although the difference in caspase-3 positive osteocytes was not significant between the OVX-LR and OVX-HR groups, numerically these cells were significantly more prevalent in OVX-HR (not OVX-LR) group than in SHAM group. TRAP positive osteoclasts were significantly higher in OVX-LR group than in SHAM or OVX-HR group. There was no significant difference in bone volume among the OVX-LR, OVX-HR and SHAM groups, but lower in OVX group alone. However, significant increase in trabecular thickness only occurred in OVX-LR group. We conclude that both low and high dose RIS significantly inhibit osteocyte apoptosis and osteoclast activity in OVX rats, but the low-dose RIS has weaker effect on osteoclast activity. However, low-dose RIS preserves cancellous bone mass and microarchitecture as well as high-dose RIS after estrogen depletion. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Bone Resorption#Cancellous Bone#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Osteoclasts#Osteocytes#Ovariectomy#Protective Agents#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Risedronate Sodium'
b'INTRODUCTION: Almost 30 years ago, about 30% of Japanese hemophiliacs became infected with HIV-1 and hepatitis C virus (HCV) after receiving contaminated blood products. While several studies have reported the high efficacy and safety of direct acting antivirals (DAA) in HIV-1 co-infected patients, such data are limited in hemophiliacs.METHODS: We conducted a single-center, open-label study involving 27 Japanese patients (median age; 45 years) with inherited bleeding disorders who were co-infected with HCV/HIV-1. Patients with HCV genotype 1 (GT1) and GT4 received ledipasvir (90 mg) plus sofosbuvir (400 mg), those with HCV GT2 received sofosbuvir plus weight-based ribavirin, and those with HCV GT3 received daclatasvir (60 mg) plus sofosbuvir. Treatment was continued for 12 weeks in all patients. The primary endpoints were rate of sustained virologic response at 12 weeks after end of therapy (SVR12) and occurrence of adverse events during DAA therapy.RESULTS: Eighteen (67%) patients had had received interferon-based therapy, and 11 (41%) had compensated cirrhosis. HCV genotypes were GT1a 4 (15%), GT1b 16 (59%), GT1 undetermined 2 (7%), GT2a 1 (4%), GT3a 3 (11%) and GT4a 1 (4%). All patients were on combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) and had undetectable HIV-1 viral load (<20 copies/\xce\xbcL) at baseline. All patients achieved SVR12. Serious adverse events were observed in 3 patients: arteritis of the leg, which resolved after completion of DAA therapy, asymptomatic QT prolongation and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. cART failure was noted in one patient due to emergence of raltegravir resistance during ledipasvir/sofosbuvir treatment. Although \xce\xb1-fetoprotein, Mac-2 binding protein glycosylation isomer (M2BPGi), and Fibro Scan (FS) scores decreased in most patients during DAA therapy, M2BPGi (>2.0 cutoff index) and FS scores (>15.0 kPa) were still high in 6 patients at week 36.CONCLUSIONS: DAA therapy is effective in all patients. However, adverse events and efficacy of cART should be monitored closely. labels: #Adult#Antiviral Agents#Benzimidazoles#Coinfection#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Fluorenes#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Hemophilia A#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Imidazoles#Interferons#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#RNA, Viral#Sofosbuvir#Viral Load'
b"The enzyme tRNase Z, a member of the metallo-\xce\xb2-lactamase family, endonucleolytically removes 3' trailers from precursor tRNAs, preparing them for CCA addition and aminoacylation. The short form of tRNase Z, tRNase ZS, functions as a homodimer and is found in all prokaryotes and some eukaryotes. The long form, tRNase ZL, related to tRNase ZS through tandem duplication and found only in eukaryotes, possesses ~2,000-fold greater catalytic efficiency than tRNase ZS. tRNase ZL consists of related but diverged amino and carboxy domains connected by a flexible linker (also referred to as a flexible tether) and functions as a monomer. The amino domain retains the flexible arm responsible for substrate recognition and binding while the carboxy domain retains the active site. The linker region was explored by Ala-scanning through two conserved regions of D. melanogaster tRNase Z: NdomTprox, located at the carboxy end of the amino domain proximal to the linker, and Tflex, a flexible site in the linker. Periodic substitutions in a hydrophobic patch (F329 and L332) at the carboxy end of NdomTprox show 2,700 and 670-fold impairment relative to wild type, respectively, accompanied by reduced linker flexibility at N-T inside the Ndom- linker boundary. The Ala substitution for N378 in the Tflex region has 10-fold higher catalytic efficiency than wild type and locally decreased flexibility, while the Ala substitution at R382 reduces catalytic efficiency ~50-fold. These changes in pre-tRNA processing kinetics and protein flexibility are interpreted in light of a recent crystal structure for S. cerevisiae tRNase Z, suggesting transmission of local changes in hydrophobicity into the skeleton of the amino domain. labels: #Alanine#Amino Acid Substitution#Animals#Binding Sites#Catalysis#Catalytic Domain#Conserved Sequence#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Endoribonucleases#RNA, Transfer#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid"
b'The genetics and epigenetic processes associated with morphological organization are a principal aim of biology, ranging from cohesion between cells to shape and size of organisms. We investigate the post-embryonic development of Hypopharyngeal sclerite and cornua HPC and mandibles M of Drosophila gaucha larva. Integrated functioning of these Cephalopharyngeal skeleton parts of D. gaucha larva is essential for food acquisition, participating in locomotion and microhabitat selection. We examined two isolates by recording the growth of the HPC and M every 24 h for 8 days in parental, F1, F2 and backcross larvae. In F1 larvae, the HPC and M growth was similar to the parental. In F2 and backcross larvae, the growth was slower. Epistasis and dominance are the principal sources upon which the growth of HPC and M are based. Pleiotropic genes seem also to be involved in integrating the development of M and HPC. Our data suggest that hybridization of the isolates modified epigenetic processes involved in the development of those morphological structures of D. gaucha larva. labels: #Animals#Bone and Bones#Drosophila#Epistasis, Genetic#Hypopharynx#Larva#Mandible#Tooth'
b"According to estimates from Public Health England, by 2034 70% of adults are expected to be overweight or obese, therefore understanding the underpinning aetiology is a priority. Eating in response to negative affect contributes towards obesity, however, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Evidence that visceral afferent signals contribute towards the experience of emotion is accumulating rapidly, with the emergence of new influential models of 'active inference'. No longer viewed as a 'bottom up' process, new interoceptive facets based on 'top down' predictions have been proposed, although at present it is unclear which aspects of interoception contribute to aberrant eating behaviour and obesity. Study one examined the link between eating behaviour, body mass index and the novel interoceptive indices; interoceptive metacognitive awareness (IAw) and interoceptive prediction error (IPE), as well as the traditional measures; interoceptive accuracy (IAc) and interoceptive sensibility (IS). The dissociation between these interoceptive indices was confirmed. Emotional eaters were characterised by a heightened interoceptive signal but reduced meta-cognitive awareness of their interoceptive abilities. In addition, emotional eating correlated with IPE; effects that could not be accounted for by differences in anxiety and depression. Study two confirmed the positive association between interoceptive accuracy and emotional eating using a novel unbiased heartbeat discrimination task based on the method of constant stimuli. Results reveal new and important mechanistic insights into the processes that may underlie problematic affect regulation in overweight populations. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Body Mass Index#Depression#Eating#Emotions#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Interoception#Obesity#Overweight#Visceral Afferents#Young Adult"
b"PURPOSE: The Prosigna\xc2\xae breast cancer prognostic gene signature assay identifies a gene-expression profile that permits the classification of tumors into subtypes and gives a score for the risk of recurrence (ROR) at 10 years. The primary objective of this multicenter study was to evaluate the impact of Prosigna's assay information on physicians' adjuvant treatment decisions in patients with early-stage breast cancer. Secondary objectives were to assess confidence of practitioners in their therapeutic recommendations before and after the added information provided by the Prosigna assay; and to evaluate the emotional state of patients before and after the Prosigna test results.METHODS: Consecutive patients with invasive early-stage breast cancer were enrolled in a prospective, observational, multicenter study carried out in 8 hospitals in France. The Prosigna test was carried out on surgical specimens using the nCounter\xc2\xae Analysis System located at the Institut Curie. Both before and after receiving the Prosigna test results, physicians completed treatment confidence questionnaires and patients completed questionnaires concerning their state of anxiety, the difficulties felt in face of the therapy and quality of life. Information was also collected at 6 months regarding the physicians' opinion on the test results and the patients' degree of anxiety, difficulties with therapy and quality of life.RESULTS: Between March 2015 and January 2016, 8 study centers in France consecutively enrolled 210 postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor (ER) positive, human epidermal growth hormone-2 (HER-2) negative, and node negative tumors, either stage 1 or stage 2. Intrinsic tumor subtypes as assessed by the Prosigna test were 114 (58.2%) Luminal A, 79 (40.3%) Luminal B, 1 (0.5%) HER-2 enriched (HER-2E), and 2 (1.0%) basal-like. Before receiving the Prosigna test results, physicians categorized tumor subtypes based on immunohistochemistry (IHC) as Luminal A in 126 (64%) patients and Luminal B in 70 (36%) patients, an overall discordance rate of 25%. The availability of Prosigna assay results was significantly associated with the likelihood of change in treatment recommendations, with 34 patients (18%) having their treatment plan changed from Adjuvant Chemotherapy to No Adjuvant Chemotherapy or vice versa (p<0.001, Fisher's exact test). Prosigna test results also decreased patients' anxiety about the chosen adjuvant therapy, and improved emotional well-being and measures of personal perceptions of uncertainty.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this prospective decision impact study are consistent with 2 previous, identically designed studies carried out in Spain and Germany. The availability of Prosigna test results increased the confidence of treating physicians in their adjuvant treatment decisions, and led to an 18% change in chemotherapy treatment plan (from Adjuvant Chemotherapy to No Adjuvant Chemotherapy or vice versa). Prosigna testing decreased anxiety and improved measures of health-related quality of life in patients facing adjuvant therapy. The 25% discordance between Prosigna test and IHC subtyping underlines the importance of molecular testing for optimal systemic therapy indications in early breast cancer. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#France#Health Planning Guidelines#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Physicians#Prospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated system (Cas) is widely used for mediating the knock-in of foreign DNA into the genomes of various organisms. Here, we report a process of CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in via non-homologous end joining by the direct injection of Cas9/gRNA ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) in the crustacean Daphnia magna, which is a model organism for studies on toxicology, ecology, and evolution. First, we confirmed the cleavage activity of Cas9 RNPs comprising purified Cas9 proteins and gRNAs in D. magna. We used a gRNA that targets exon 10 of the eyeless gene. Cas9 proteins were incubated with the gRNAs and the resulting Cas9 RNPs were injected into D. magna eggs, which led to a typical phenotype of the eyeless mutant, i.e., eye deformity. The somatic and heritable mutagenesis efficiencies were up to 96% and 40%, respectively. Second, we tested the CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in of a plasmid by the injection of Cas9 RNPs. The donor DNA plasmid harboring the fluorescent reporter gene was designed to contain the gRNA recognition site. The co-injection of Cas9 RNPs together with the donor DNAs resulted in generation of one founder animal that produced fluorescent progenies. This transgenic Daphnia had donor DNA at the targeted genomic site, which suggested the concurrent cleavage of the injected plasmid DNA and genomic DNA. Owing to its simplicity and ease of experimental design, we suggest that the CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in method represents a promising tool for studying functional genomics in D. magna. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Base Sequence#CRISPR-Cas Systems#DNA End-Joining Repair#Daphnia#Gene Knock-In Techniques#Gene Knockout Techniques#Genes, Reporter#Genetic Loci#Germ Cells#Phenotype#Plasmids#Ribonucleoproteins#Transgenes'
b'Sulfur trafficking in living organisms relies on transpersulfuration reactions consisting in the enzyme-catalyzed transfer of S atoms via activated persulfidic S across protein-protein interfaces. The recent elucidation of the mechanistic basis for transpersulfuration in the CsdA-CsdE model system has paved the way for a better understanding of its role under oxidative stress. Herein we present the crystal structure of the oxidized, inactivated CsdE dimer at 2.4 \xc3\x85 resolution. The structure sheds light into the activation of the Cys61 nucleophile on its way from a solvent-secluded position in free CsdE to a fully extended conformation in the persulfurated CsdA-CsdE complex. Molecular dynamics simulations of available CsdE structures allow to delineate the sequence of conformational changes underwent by CsdE and to pinpoint the key role played by the deprotonation of the Cys61 thiol. The low-energy subunit orientation in the disulfide-bridged CsdE dimer demonstrates the likely physiologic relevance of this oxidative dead-end form of CsdE, suggesting that CsdE could act as a redox sensor in vivo. labels: #Carbon-Sulfur Lyases#Crystallography, X-Ray#DEAD-box RNA Helicases#Escherichia coli#Escherichia coli Proteins#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Oxidative Stress#Protein Conformation#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Protein Multimerization#Sulfur'
b'The polyamine norspermidine is one of the major polyamines synthesized by Vibrionales and has also been found in various aquatic organisms. Norspermidine is among the environmental signals that positively regulate Vibrio cholerae biofilm formation. The NspS/MbaA signaling complex detects extracellular norspermidine and mediates the response to this polyamine. Norspermidine binding to the NspS periplasmic binding protein is thought to inhibit the phosphodiesterase activity of MbaA, increasing levels of the biofilm-promoting second messenger cyclic diguanylate monophosphate, thus enhancing biofilm formation. V. cholerae can also synthesize norspermidine using the enzyme NspC as well as import it from the environment. Deletion of the nspC gene was shown to reduce accumulation of bacteria in biofilms, leading to the conclusion that intracellular norspermidine is also a positive regulator of biofilm formation. Because V. cholerae uses norspermidine to synthesize the siderophore vibriobactin it is possible that intracellular norspermidine is required to obtain sufficient amounts of iron, which is also necessary for robust biofilm formation. The objective of this study was to assess the relative contributions of intracellular and extracellular norspermidine to the regulation of biofilm formation in V. cholerae. We show the biofilm defect of norspermidine synthesis mutants does not result from an inability to produce vibriobactin as vibriobactin synthesis mutants do not have diminished biofilm forming abilities. Furthermore, our work shows that extracellular, but not intracellular norspermidine, is mainly responsible for promoting biofilm formation. We establish that the NspS/MbaA signaling complex is the dominant mediator of biofilm formation in response to extracellular norspermidine, rather than norspermidine synthesized by NspC or imported into the cell. labels: #Biofilms#Catechols#Cyclic GMP#Iron#Oxazoles#Periplasmic Binding Proteins#Phosphoric Diester Hydrolases#Signal Transduction#Spermidine#Vibrio cholerae'
b'We consider a continuous-time Markov chain model of SIR disease dynamics with two levels of mixing. For this so-called stochastic households model, we provide two methods for inferring the model parameters-governing within-household transmission, recovery, and between-household transmission-from data of the day upon which each individual became infectious and the household in which each infection occurred, as might be available from First Few Hundred studies. Each method is a form of Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo that allows us to calculate a joint posterior distribution for all parameters and hence the household reproduction number and the early growth rate of the epidemic. The first method performs exact Bayesian inference using a standard data-augmentation approach; the second performs approximate Bayesian inference based on a likelihood approximation derived from branching processes. These methods are compared for computational efficiency and posteriors from each are compared. The branching process is shown to be a good approximation and remains computationally efficient as the amount of data is increased. labels: #Algorithms#Communicable Diseases#Computer Simulation#Family Characteristics#Humans#Markov Chains#Models, Theoretical#Monte Carlo Method'
b"Humans generally prefer social over nonsocial stimuli from an early age. Reduced preference for social rewards has been observed in individuals with autism spectrum conditions (ASC). This preference has typically been noted in separate tasks that measure orienting toward and engaging with social stimuli. In this experiment, we used two eye-tracking tasks to index both of these aspects of social preference in in 77 typical adults. We used two measures, global effect and preferential looking time. The global effect task measures saccadic deviation toward a social stimulus (related to 'orienting'), while the preferential looking task records gaze duration bias toward social stimuli (relating to 'engaging'). Social rewards were found to elicit greater saccadic deviation and greater gaze duration bias, suggesting that they have both greater salience and higher value compared to nonsocial rewards. Trait empathy was positively correlated with the measure of relative value of social rewards, but not with their salience. This study thus elucidates the relationship of empathy with social reward processing. labels: #Bias#Empathy#Eye Movements#Female#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Individuality#Male#Reward#Social Behavior#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) have been shown to be vitamin D3 (VD3) deficient, which is associated with more severe disease and increased polyp size. To gain mechanistic insights into these observational studies, we examined the impact of VD3 deficiency on inflammation and VD3 metabolism in an Aspergillus fumigatus (Af) mouse model of chronic rhinosinusitis (Af-CRS).METHODS: Balb/c mice were fed control or VD3 deficient diet for 4 weeks. Mice were then sensitized with intraperitoneal Af, and one week later given Af intranasally every three days for four weeks while being maintained on control or VD3 deficient diet. Airway function, sinonasal immune cell infiltrate and sinonasal VD3 metabolism profiles were then examined.RESULTS: Mice with VD3 deficiency had increased Penh and sRaw values as compared to controls as well as exacerbated changes in sRaw when coupled with Af-CRS. As compared to controls, VD3 deficient and Af-CRS mice had reduced sinonasal 1\xce\xb1-hydroxylase and the active VD3 metabolite, 1,25(OH)2D3. Differential analysis of nasal lavage samples showed that VD3 deficiency alone and in combination with Af-CRS profoundly upregulated eosinophil, neutrophil and lymphocyte numbers. VD3 deficiency exacerbated increases in monocyte-derived dendritic cell (DC) associated with Af-CRS. Conversely, T-regulatory cells were decreased in both Af-CRS mice and VD3 deficient mice, though coupling VD3 deficiency with Af-CRS did not exacerbate CD4 or T-regulatory cells numbers. Lastly, VD3 deficiency had a modifying or exacerbating impact on nasal lavage levels of IFN-\xce\xb3, IL-6, IL-10 and TNF-\xce\xb1, but had no impact on IL-17A.CONCLUSIONS: VD3 deficiency causes changes in sinonasal immunity, which in many ways mirrors the changes observed in Af-CRS mice, while selectively exacerbating inflammation. Furthermore, both VD3 deficiency and Af-CRS were associated with altered sinonasal VD3 metabolism causing reductions in local levels of the active VD3 metabolite, 1,25(OH)2D3, even with adequate circulating levels. labels: #Animals#Aspergillus fumigatus#Blood Cell Count#Cholecalciferol#Diet#Dietary Supplements#Disease Models, Animal#Eosinophils#Humans#Inflammation#Lymphocytes#Mice#Nasal Lavage#Nasal Polyps#Neutrophils#Rhinitis#Sinusitis#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Vitamin D Deficiency'
b'Many archaeological science studies use the concept of "provenance", where the origins of cultural material can be determined through physical or chemical properties that relate back to the origins of the material. Recent studies using DNA profiling of bacteria have been used for the forensic determination of soils, towards determination of geographic origin. This manuscript presents a novel approach to the provenance of archaeological minerals and related materials through the use of 16S rRNA sequencing analysis of microbial DNA. Through the microbial DNA characterization from ochre and multivariate statistics, we have demonstrated the clear discrimination between four distinct Australian cultural ochre sites. labels: #Archaeology#Australia#Geography#Phylogeny#Principal Component Analysis#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Soil#Soil Microbiology'
b'BACKGROUND: Although current alcohol consumption is a risk factor for incident atrial fibrillation (AF), the more clinically relevant question may be whether alcohol cessation is associated with a reduced risk.METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied participants enrolled in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study (ARIC) between 1987 and 1989 without prevalent AF. Past and current alcohol consumption were ascertained at baseline and at 3 subsequent visits. Incident AF was ascertained via study ECGs, hospital discharge ICD-9 codes, and death certificates. Of 15,222 participants, 2,886 (19.0%) were former drinkers. During a median follow-up of 19.7 years, there were 1,631 cases of incident AF, 370 occurring in former consumers. Former drinkers had a higher rate of AF compared to lifetime abstainers and current drinkers. After adjustment for potential confounders, every decade abstinent from alcohol was associated with an approximate 20% (95% CI 11-28%) lower rate of incident AF; every additional decade of past alcohol consumption was associated with a 13% (95% CI 3-25%) higher rate of AF; and every additional drink per day during former drinking was associated with a 4% (95% CI 0-8%) higher rate of AF.CONCLUSIONS: Among former drinkers, the number of years of drinking and the amount of alcohol consumed may each confer an increased risk of AF. Given that a longer duration of abstinence was associated with a decreased risk of AF, earlier modification of alcohol use may have a greater influence on AF prevention. labels: #Alcohol Drinking#Atherosclerosis#Atrial Fibrillation#Female#Humans#Incidence#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors'
b'One of the challenging issues in vaccine development is peptide and adjuvant delivery into target cells. In this study, we developed a vaccine and therapeutic delivery system to increase cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response against a breast cancer model overexpressing HER2/neu. Gp2, a HER2/neu-derived peptide, was conjugated to Maleimide-mPEG2000-DSPE micelles and post inserted into liposomes composed of DMPC, DMPG phospholipids, and fusogenic lipid dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE) containing monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) adjuvant (DMPC-DMPG-DOPE-MPL-Gp2). BALB/c mice were immunized with different formulations and the immune response was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. ELISpot and intracellular cytokine analysis by flow cytometry showed that the mice vaccinated with Lip-DOPE-MPL-GP2 incited the highest number of IFN-\xce\xb3+ in CD8+ cells and CTL response. The immunization led to lower tumor sizes and longer survival time compared to the other groups of mice immunized and treated with the Lip-DOPE-MPL-GP2 formulation in both prophylactic and therapeutic experiments. These results showed that co-formulation of DOPE and MPL conjugated with GP2 peptide not only induces high antitumor immunity but also enhances therapeutic efficacy in TUBO mice model. Lip-DOPE-MPL-GP2 formulation could be a promising vaccine and a therapeutic delivery system against HER2 positive cancers and merits further investigation. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Antigens, Neoplasm#Breast Neoplasms#Cancer Vaccines#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Separation#Chromatography, Thin Layer#Cytokines#Enzyme-Linked Immunospot Assay#Female#Interferon-gamma#Interleukin-4#Liposomes#Lymph Nodes#Maleimides#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Nanoparticles#Peptides#Phenotype#Phosphatidylethanolamines#Polyethylene Glycols#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptor, ErbB-2#Spleen#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Vaccination#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the image quality and radiation dose of submillisievert standard-pitch CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA) with ultra-low dose contrast media administration in comparison to standard CTPA.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Hundred patients (56 females, 44 males, mean age 69.6\xc2\xb115.4 years; median BMI: 26.6, IQR: 5.9) with suspected pulmonary embolism were examined with two different protocols (n = 50 each, group A: 80 kVp, ref. mAs 115, 25 ml of contrast medium; group B: 100 kVp, ref. mAs 150, 60 ml of contrast medium) using a dual-source CT equipped with automated exposure control. Objective and subjective image qualities, radiation exposure as well as the frequency of pulmonary embolism were evaluated.RESULTS: There was no significant difference in subjective image quality scores between two groups regarding pulmonary arteries (p = 0.776), whereby the interobserver agreement was excellent (group A: k = 0.9; group B k = 1.0). Objective image analysis revealed that signal intensities (SI), signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) of the pulmonary arteries were equal or significantly higher in group B. There was no significant difference in the frequency of pulmonary embolism (p = 0.65). Using the low dose and low contrast media protocol resulted in a radiation dose reduction by 71.8% (2.4 vs. 0.7 mSv; p<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: This 80 kVp standard pitch CTPA protocol with 25 ml contrast agent volume can obtain sufficient image quality to exclude or diagnose pulmonary emboli while reducing radiation dose by approximately 71%. labels: #Aged#Aorta#Computed Tomography Angiography#Contrast Media#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Female#Humans#Lung#Male#Pulmonary Artery#Pulmonary Embolism#Radiation Exposure#Radiographic Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Reference Standards'
b'HIV1-TAT interactive protein (TIP60) is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor. However, the potential mechanisms endowing its tumor suppressor ability remain incompletely understood. It plays a vital role in virus-induced cancers where TIP60 down-regulates the expression of human papillomavirus (HPV) oncoprotein E6 which in turn destabilizes TIP60. This intrigued us to identify the role of TIP60, in the context of a viral infection, where it is targeted by oncoproteins. Through an array of molecular biology techniques such as Chromatin immunoprecipitation, expression analysis and mass spectrometry, we establish the hitherto unknown role of TIP60 in repressing the expression of the catalytic subunit of the human telomerase complex, TERT, a key driver for immortalization. TIP60 acetylates Sp1 at K639, thus inhibiting Sp1 binding to the TERT promoter. We identified that TIP60-mediated growth suppression of HPV-induced cervical cancer is mediated in part due to TERT repression through Sp1 acetylation. In summary, our study has identified a novel substrate for TIP60 catalytic activity and a unique repressive mechanism acting at the TERT promoter in virus-induced malignancies. labels: #Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HeLa Cells#Histone Acetyltransferases#Humans#Lysine Acetyltransferase 5#Neoplasm Proteins#Response Elements#Sp1 Transcription Factor#Telomerase#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms'
b'How to identify protein complex is an important and challenging task in proteomics. It would make great contribution to our knowledge of molecular mechanism in cell life activities. However, the inherent organization and dynamic characteristic of cell system have rarely been incorporated into the existing algorithms for detecting protein complexes because of the limitation of protein-protein interaction (PPI) data produced by high throughput techniques. The availability of time course gene expression profile enables us to uncover the dynamics of molecular networks and improve the detection of protein complexes. In order to achieve this goal, this paper proposes a novel algorithm DCA (Dynamic Core-Attachment). It detects protein-complex core comprising of continually expressed and highly connected proteins in dynamic PPI network, and then the protein complex is formed by including the attachments with high adhesion into the core. The integration of core-attachment feature into the dynamic PPI network is responsible for the superiority of our algorithm. DCA has been applied on two different yeast dynamic PPI networks and the experimental results show that it performs significantly better than the state-of-the-art techniques in terms of prediction accuracy, hF-measure and statistical significance in biology. In addition, the identified complexes with strong biological significance provide potential candidate complexes for biologists to validate. labels: #Algorithms#Gene Regulatory Networks#Multiprotein Complexes#Protein Interaction Maps#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have an increased incidence of cardiovascular events (CVE). The contribution of subclinical atheromatosis extent, including femoral arteries, to CVE in CKD patients has not been investigated. In this paper, we examine the prognostic value of subclinical atheromatosis extent, assessed as the number of arterial territories with plaque, in predicting the incidence of major and minor CVE. The NEFRONA is a multicenter, prospective cohorts study that recruited 2445 CKD subjects and 559 controls, free from previous cardiovascular disease, in 81 medical centers across Spain. The presence of atheroma plaque was assessed by arterial ultrasound in ten arterial territories (carotid and femoral). The predictive power of the presence or absence of atheroma plaque in any territory was compared with the quantification of atheroma extent as the number of territories with plaque. During the median follow up of 48 months, 216 CVE were reported. Factors predicting the incidence of CVE in the whole cohort were being male, CKD patient, lower levels of 25(OH) vitamin D, higher levels of cholesterol and the extent of subclinical atheromatosis, yielding a higher concordance (C) index than the presence or absence of plaque. In stratified analysis including specific factors of CKD patients not on dialysis, the variables predicting CVE were the same as in the whole cohort, plus higher levels of potassium. Again, the inclusion of the information about atheromatosis as number of territories with plaque, presented a higher C index than the presence or absence of plaque. In the dialysis population, significant variables were older age, diabetes, dialysis vintage and higher levels of cholesterol and phosphate. In this case the higher C index was obtained with the information about plaque presence. Subclinical atheromatosis extent, including femoral arteries, influences CVE in CKD and its detection could improve the prediction of cardiovascular events. labels: #Aged#Atherosclerosis#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Biological#Multivariate Analysis#Regression Analysis#Renal Dialysis#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Ultrasonography'
b'The safety of hydroxyethyl starches (HES) is still under debate. No studies have compared different dosing regimens of HES in cardiac surgery. We analyzed whether the incidence of Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) differed taking into account a weight-adjusted cumulative dose of HES 6% 130/0.4 for perioperative fluid therapy. This retrospective cohort study included all adult patients undergoing elective or emergency cardiac surgery with or without cardiopulmonary bypass. Exclusion criteria were patients on renal replacement therapy (RRT), cardiac trauma surgery, heart transplantation, patients with ventricular assist devices, subjects who required a surgical revision for bleeding and those whose medical records were incomplete. Primary endpoint was AKI following the creatinine based RIFLE classification. Secondary endpoints were 30-day mortality and RRT. Patients were divided into 2 groups whether they had received a cumulative HES dose of<30 mL/kg (Low HES) or \xe2\x89\xa5 30 mL/kg (High HES) during the intra- and postoperative period. A total of 1501 patients were analyzed with 983 patients in the Low HES and 518 subjects in the High HES group. 185 (18.8%) patients in the Low HES and 119 (23.0%) patients in the High HES group developed AKI (P = 0.06). In multivariable regression analysis the dose of HES administered per weight was not associated with AKI. After case-control matching 217 patients were analyzed in each group. AKI occurred in 39 (18.0%) patients in the Low HES and 50 (23.0%) patients in the High HES group (P = 0.19). In conditional regression analysis performed on the matched groups a lower weight-adjusted dose of HES was significantly associated with a reduced incidence of AKI [(Odds Ratio (95% CI) = 0.825 (0.727-0.936); P = 0.003]. In the absence of any safety study the cumulative dose of modern HES in cardiac surgery should be kept less than 30 mL/kg. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Aged#Cardiopulmonary Bypass#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Fluid Therapy#Heart Transplantation#Heart-Assist Devices#Humans#Hydroxyethyl Starch Derivatives#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Period#Renal Replacement Therapy#Reoperation#Risk Factors#Thoracic Surgical Procedures'
b'Cellular FLICE inhibitory protein (c-FLIP) is a key anti-apoptotic regulator that associates with the signaling complex downstream of NF-\xce\xbaB, negatively interfering with apoptotic signaling. The role of c-FLIP downregulation by negative regulation of NF-\xce\xbaB signaling during apoptosis is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that NF-\xce\xbaB-mediated c-FLIPL negatively regulates the JNK signaling pathway, and that cordycepin treatment of human renal cancer cells leads to apoptosis induction through c-FLIPL inhibition. TNF-\xce\xb1-induced inflammatory microenvironments stimulated NF-\xce\xbaB signaling and the c-FLIP long form (c-FLIPL) in TK-10 cells. Specifically, cordycepin inhibited TNF-\xce\xb1-mediated NF-\xce\xbaB activation, which induced renal cancer cell apoptosis. Cordycepin downregulated GADD45B and c-FLIPL, but upregulated MKK7 and phospho-JNK, by preventing nuclear mobilization of NF-\xce\xbaB. Furthermore, siRNA-mediated knockdown of GADD45B in cordycepin-treated TK-10 cells considerably increased MKK7 compared to cordycepin alone. siRNA-mediated knockdown of c-FLIPL prevented TNF-\xce\xb1-induced JNK inactivation, whereas c-FLIPL overexpression inhibited cordycepin-mediated JNK activation. The JNK inhibitor SP600125 strongly inhibited Bax expression. In nude mice, cordycepin significantly decreased tumor volume. Taken together, the results indicate that cordycepin inhibits TNF-\xce\xb1-mediated NF-\xce\xbaB/GADD45B signaling, which activates the MKK7-JNK signaling pathway through inhibition of c-FLIPL expression, thus inducing TK-10 cell apoptosis. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Differentiation#Apoptosis#CASP8 and FADD-Like Apoptosis Regulating Protein#Carcinoma, Renal Cell#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Deoxyadenosines#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inflammation#JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Kidney Neoplasms#MAP Kinase Kinase 7#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Male#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#NF-kappa B#Nitric Oxide#Phosphorylation#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Up-Regulation#bcl-2-Associated X Protein'
b'Freezing is a defensive response to acute stress that is associated with coping and alterations in attentional processing. However, it remains unclear whether individuals in high risk professions, who are skilled at making rapid decisions in emergency situations, show altered threat-induced freezing. Here we investigated the effect of incident experience in a high risk profession on freezing. Additionally, we explored whether any effect of incident experience on freezing would be different for profession-related and -unrelated threat. Forty experienced and inexperienced firefighters were presented neutral, pleasant, related-unpleasant, and unrelated-unpleasant pictures in a passive viewing task. Postural sway and heart rate were assessed to determine freezing. Both postural and heart rate data evidenced reduced freezing upon unpleasant pictures in the experienced versus the inexperienced group. Relatedness of the unpleasant pictures did not modulate these effects. These findings indicate that higher incident experience relates to decreased threat-induced freezing, at least in a passive task context. This might suggest that primary defense responses are malleable through experience. Finally, these findings demonstrate the potential of using animal to human translational approaches to investigate defensive behaviors in relation to incident experience in high risk professions and stimulate future research on the role of freezing in resilience and coping. labels: #Adult#Arousal#Demography#Firefighters#Freezing Reaction, Cataleptic#Heart Rate#Humans#Immobility Response, Tonic#Male#Postural Balance'
b'SUMO proteins are important post-translational modifiers involved in multiple cellular pathways in eukaryotes, especially during the different developmental stages in multicellular organisms. The nematode C. elegans is a well known model system for studying metazoan development and has a single SUMO homolog, SMO-1. Interestingly, SMO-1 modification is linked to embryogenesis and development in the nematode. However, high-resolution information about SMO-1 and the mechanism of its conjugation is lacking. In this work, we report the high-resolution three dimensional structure of SMO-1 solved by NMR spectroscopy. SMO-1 has flexible N-terminal and C-terminal tails on either side of a rigid beta-grasp folded core. While the sequence of SMO-1 is more similar to SUMO1, the electrostatic surface features of SMO-1 resemble more with SUMO2/3. SMO-1 can bind to typical SUMO Interacting Motifs (SIMs). SMO-1 can also conjugate to a typical SUMOylation consensus site as well as to its natural substrate HMR-1. Poly-SMO-1 chains were observed in-vitro even though SMO-1 lacks any consensus SUMOylation site. Typical deSUMOylation enzymes like Senp2 can cleave the poly-SMO-1 chains. Despite being a single gene, the SMO-1 structure allows it to function in a large repertoire of signaling pathways involving SUMO in C. elegans. Structural and functional features of SMO-1 studies described here will be useful to understand its role in development. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Cadherins#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy#Models, Molecular#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#SUMO-1 Protein#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Solutions#Static Electricity#Sumoylation#Time Factors'
b'Previous genome wide association studies (GWAS) identified associations of multiple common variants with diastolic and systolic blood pressure traits in adults. However, the contribution of these loci to variations of blood pressure in early life is unclear. We assessed the child and parental contributions of 33 GWAS single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for blood pressure in 1,525 participants (515 children, 406 mothers and 237 fathers) of the Family Atherosclerosis Monitoring In early life (FAMILY) study followed-up for 5 years. Two genotype scores for systolic (29 SNPs) and diastolic (24 SNPs) blood pressure were built. Linear mixed-effect regressions showed significant association between rs1378942 in CSK and systolic blood pressure (\xce\xb2 = 0.98\xc2\xb10.46, P = 3.4\xc3\x9710-2). The child genotype scores for diastolic and systolic blood pressure were not associated in children. Nominally significant parental genetic effects were found between the SNPs rs11191548 (CYP17A1) (paternal, \xce\xb2 = 2.78\xc2\xb11.49, P = 6.1\xc3\x9710-2 for SBP and \xce\xb2 = 3.60\xc2\xb11.24, P = 3.7\xc3\x9710-3 for DBP), rs17367504 (MTHFR) (paternal, \xce\xb2 = 2.42\xc2\xb10.93, P = 9.3\xc3\x9710-3 for SBP and \xce\xb2 = 1.89\xc2\xb10.80, P = 1.8\xc3\x9710-2 for DBP and maternal, \xce\xb2 = -1.32\xc2\xb10.60, P = 2.9\xc3\x9710-2 and \xce\xb2 = -1.97\xc2\xb10.77, P = 1.0\xc3\x9710-2, for SBP and DBP respectively) and child blood pressure. Our study supports the view that adult GWAS loci have a limited impact on blood pressure during the five first years of life. The parental genetic effects observed on blood pressure in children may suggest epigenetic mechanisms in the transmission of the risk of hypertension. Further replication is needed to confirm our results. labels: #Adult#Blood Pressure#Child, Preschool#Female#Genetic Markers#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Hypertension#Infant#Male#Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (NADPH2)#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Steroid 17-alpha-Hydroxylase#src-Family Kinases'
b'Sulfites and other preservatives are considered food additives to limit bacterial contamination, and are generally regarded as safe for consumption by governmental regulatory agencies at concentrations up to 5000 parts per million (ppm). Consumption of bactericidal and bacteriostatic drugs have been shown to damage beneficial bacteria in the human gut and this damage has been associated with several diseases. In the present study, bactericidal and bacteriostatic effects of two common food preservatives, sodium bisulfite and sodium sulfite, were tested on four known beneficial bacterial species common as probiotics and members of the human gut microbiota. Lactobacillus species casei, plantarum and rhamnosus, and Streptococcus thermophilus were grown under optimal environmental conditions to achieve early log phase at start of experiments. Bacterial cultures were challenged with sulfite concentrations ranging between 10 and 3780 ppm for six hours. To establish a control, a culture of each species was inoculated into media containing no sulfite preservative. By two hours of exposure, a substantial decrease (or no increase) of cell numbers (based on OD600 readings) were observed for all bacteria types, in concentrations of sulfites between 250-500 ppm, compared to cells in sulfite free media. Further testing using serial dilution and drop plates identified bactericidal effects in concentrations ranging between 1000-3780 ppm on all the Lactobacillus species by 4 hours of exposure and bactericidal effects on S. thermophilus in 2000ppm NaHSO3 after 6 hours of exposure. labels: #Bacteria#Colony Count, Microbial#Food Safety#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Microbial Viability#Species Specificity#Sulfites'
b'A cross between IR64 (high-yielding but drought-susceptible) and Aday Sel (drought-tolerant) rice cultivars yielded a stable line with enhanced grain yield under drought screening field trials at International Rice Research Institute. The major effect qDTY4.1 drought tolerance and yield QTL was detected in the IR77298-14-1-2-10 Backcrossed Inbred Line (BIL) and its IR87705-7-15-B Near Isogenic Line (NIL) with 93.9% genetic similarity to IR64. Although rice yield is extremely susceptible to water stress at reproductive stage, currently, there is only one report on the detection of drought-responsive microRNAs in inflorescence tissue of a Japonica rice line. In this study, more drought-responsive microRNAs were identified in the inflorescence tissues of IR64, IR77298-14-1-2-10 and IR87705-7-15-B via next-generation sequencing. Among the 32 families of inflorescence-specific non-conserved microRNAs that were identified, 22 families were up-regulated in IR87705-7-15-B. Overall 9 conserved and 34 non-conserved microRNA families were found as drought-responsive in rice inflorescence with 5 conserved and 30 non-conserved families induced in the IR87705-7-15-B. The observation of more drought-responsive non-conserved microRNAs may imply their prominence over conserved microRNAs in drought response mechanisms of rice inflorescence. Gene Ontology annotation analysis on the target genes of drought-responsive microRNAs identified in IR87705-7-15-B revealed over-representation of biological processes including development, signalling and response to stimulus. Particularly, four inflorescence-specific microRNAs viz. osa-miR5485, osa-miR5487, osa-miR5492 and osa-miR5517, and two non-inflorescence specific microRNAs viz. osa-miR169d and osa-miR169f.2 target genes that are involved in flower or embryonic development. Among them, osa-miR169d, osa-miR5492 and osa-miR5517 are related to flowering time control. It is also worth mentioning that osa-miR2118 and osa-miR2275, which are implicated in the biosynthesis of rice inflorescence-specific small interfering RNAs, were induced in IR87705-7-15-B but repressed in IR77298-14-1-2-10. Further, gene search within qDTY4.1 QTL region had identified multiple copies of NBS-LRR resistance genes (potential target of osa-miR2118), subtilisins and genes implicated in stomatal movement, ABA metabolism and cuticular wax biosynthesis. labels: #Droughts#Flowers#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genotype#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Inflorescence#MicroRNAs#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Oryza#Plant Leaves#Plant Roots#Quantitative Trait Loci#Transcriptome'
b'Age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) is the leading cause of blindness in developed world but there are still much unknown facts about the disease itself. Age, genetic factors and smoking are the three main risk factors for the development of ARMD, but the exact pathophysiological\nmechanism of the disease remains unknown. Current high resolution optical coherence tomography devices provide ample new information on retinal layers, drusen characteristics and their interaction. In this study, we analyzed 44 eyes with drusiform dry ARMD using high resolution opticalcoherence tomography over a 2-year period. Our results showed a statistically significant increase in drusen number in both females and males in the 2-year period. On average, increment by 4 and 5 drusen per eye during the 2-year period was recorded in female and male patients with drusiform dry\nARMD, respectively. Also, statistical analysis of the central retinal thickness showed that women with drusiform dry ARMD had a statistically significantly thinner macula than their male counterparts. labels: #Aged#Disease Progression#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Retina#Retinal Drusen#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Ventilator-associated pneumonia is a frequent complication in intensive care surgical patients, particularly those with high severity scores on admission. We studied the incidence and clinical outcome of ventilator-associated pneumonia among patients undergoing major general surgeryprocedures and those undergoing cadaveric liver transplantation in our hospital. Patients with the intensive care unit stay longer than four days having undergone surgery or transplantation and mechanically ventilated for more than 48 hours were included in the study. Ventilator-associated pneumonia\ndiagnosis was based on a combination of radiological signs (progressive infiltrate on chest radiograph), clinical signs (fever>38.3 \xc2\xb0C, leukocytes>12\xc3\x9710(9)/mL) and microbiological data (positive culture from tracheal aspiration>10(5) or bronchoalveolar lavage>104 colonies/mL). Medical records of\n1037 patients were reviewed and 157 patients were found to have been mechanically ventilated for more than 48 hours: 62 transplanted and 95 non-transplanted. Only 39 (24.84%) patients matched the criteria for ventilator-associated pneumonia. There were no differences in sex, age, duration ofmechanical ventilation, length of stay or outcome between the two groups. However, the main difference was the mean severity score on admission (Simplified Acute Physiology Score II) which was higher among non-transplant patients (42\xc2\xb116 vs. 31\xc2\xb19; p=0.03). Gram-negative bacteria were the\nleading causative agents (82.03%) and were multidrug-resistant. In the intensive care surgical population, transplantation per se does not seem to increase patient risk for either ventilator-associated pneumonia acquisition or worse outcomes. labels: #Aged#Croatia#Female#Humans#Incidence#Intensive Care Units#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonia, Ventilator-Associated#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Respiration, Artificial#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'Patient safety culture (PCS) has a crucial impact on the safety practices of healthcare delivery systems. The purpose of this study was to assess the state of PSC in Croatian hospitals and compare it with hospitals in the United States. The study was conducted in three public general\nhospitals in Croatia using the Croatian translation of the Hospital Survey of Patient Safety Culture (HSOPSC). A comparison of the results from Croatian and American hospitals was performed using a T-square test. We found statistically significant differences in all 12 PSC dimensions. Croatianresponses were more positive in the two dimensions of Handoff s and Transitions and Overall Perceptions of Patient Safety. In the remaining ten dimensions, Croatian responses were less positive than in US hospitals, with the most prominent areas being Nonpunitive Response to Error, Frequency of\nEvents Reported, Communication Openness, Teamwork within Units, Feedback&Communication about Error, Management Support for Patient Safety, and Staffing. Our findings show that PSC is significantly lower in Croatian than in American hospitals, particularly in the areas of Nonpunitive\nResponse to Error, Leadership, Teamwork, Communication Openness and Staffing. This suggests that a more comprehensive system for the improvement of patient safety within the framework of the Croatian healthcare system needs to be developed. Our findings also help confirm that HSOPSC is auseful and appropriate tool for the assessment of PSC. HSOPSC highlights the PSC components in need of improvement and should be considered for use in national and international benchmarking. labels: #Attitude of Health Personnel#Croatia#Hospitals#Humans#Organizational Culture#Organizational Innovation#Patient Safety#Safety Management#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'The aim of the study was to assess the influence of gap shape on biomechanical\nresults in extra-articular distal humeral fracture: with contact on the posterior part (by anterior gap)and contact on ulnar column (by radial gap). The goal was to examine if and to what extent did\ndisplacements decrease in comparison with previously examined parallel gap without bony contact.The finite element analysis on the three different plate constructs was performed, i.e. parallel, perpendicular\nand newly designed Y shape plate were considered. Displacements were measured on articularsurface and gap point. The most visible decrease of maximum displacements in the distal part of the\nmodel was detected in the Y plate model with axial loading: in case of anterior gap 58.5% and especiallyat radially formed gap 60.9%. Similarly, at axial loading, displacement at the analyzed point on\nfracture gap most significantly decreased in Y plate model (by 49.4%) at posterior bony contact. Moreover,the latter showed displacement decrease by 68.5% at ulnar bone contact. Furthermore, if a longer\nradial plate than the ulnar one was used, varus stress could have been avoided. Study results suggestedthat sufficient stability could be ensured with the newly designed Y shape plate. labels: #Biomechanical Phenomena#Bone Plates#Bone Screws#Finite Element Analysis#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Humans#Humeral Fractures#Weight-Bearing'
b'Elderly people, especially those institutionalized in long-term care facilities, are at\nrisk of various oral diseases. The aim of the study was to determine the incidence of hyposalivation andcolonization/oral fungal infection of oral cavity with yeasts, as well as dental status in institutionalized\nand non-institutionalized elderly. The study included 280 institutionalized and 61 non-institutionalizedelderly people. Salivary flow rate, oral colonization with yeasts/oral infection and dental status\nwere assessed and compared between the groups. The institutionalized elderly had a significantlylower salivary flow rate (p=0.035). Oral colonization with yeasts was more frequently found in institutionalized\nelderly (p<0.001) as compared with non-institutionalized elderly. A negative correlation\nwas found between decreased salivary flow rate and oral yeast colonization and oral fungal infectionin both the institutionalized (rs=-0.58; p<0.05) and non-institutionalized (rs=-0.52; p<0.05) groups.\nA significant difference in DMFT index was observed between the two groups (p<0.001). A negative\ncorrelation between decreased salivary flow rate and dental status was found in both the institutionalized(rs=-0.22; p<0.05) and non-institutionalized (rs=-0.56; p<0.05) groups. The results revealed a\nsignificantly higher level of hyposalivation and oral yeast colonization and poorer dental status in theinstitutionalized group as compared with the non-institutionalized group of elderly people. labels: #Aged#Burning Mouth Syndrome#Candidiasis, Oral#Croatia#Female#Humans#Institutionalization#Male#Mouth Diseases#Mouth Mucosa#Nursing Homes#Oral Health#Saliva#Secretory Rate#Taste Disorders'
b'The aim of this study was to explore differences in the intensity of depressiveness,\nsleep disturbances and sleepiness between post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) patients and patientswith depression. A total of 170 patients were examined, including 120 PTSD patients and 50 patients\nwith depression. All participants completed the Beck Depression Inventory, Pittsburgh Sleep QualityIndex and Epworth Sleepiness Scale. The results showed difference in the subjective assessment of\nsleep quality between the war veterans with PTSD and civilians with depression, without significantdifferences between them in the level of depressiveness and sleepiness. Considering the fact that\ninsomnia can occur as an early, covert sign of both PTSD and depression and that differences in theintensity of sleep disturbances between the groups were established, the use of these and similarinstruments for the assessment of sleep quality can be useful in distinguishing patients with PTSD\nand depression, treatment of their sleep disturbances, and prevention of more severe symptoms in bothdiagnostic categories. labels: #Adult#Depression#Female#Health Status#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Sleep#Sleep Wake Disorders#Stress Disorders, Post-Traumatic#Veterans'
b'Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common diseases of the central nervous system and usually occurs at the age when people would be expected to be in the prime of their sexual lives. In everyday practice, sexual dysfunction is underestimated because clinicians mostly concentrate\non the classic neurologic deficits and often overlook symptoms that can seriously affect the quality of life. Our study included 98 patients (42 men and 56 women, mean age 35\xc2\xb112 years) with relapse from our MS register, with established diagnosis of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis accordingto McDonald criteria. Patients completed the questionnaires (Sexual Satisfaction Scale, SSS and Beck Depression Scale BDS), and underwent neurological assessment (Expanded Disability Status Scale, EDSS). All patients were in the group with EDSS 2 to 4 points (mobile patients). There\nwas no statistically significant difference in BDS and SSS values according to EDSS score. Correlation coefficients were calculated (BDS and SSS) for men (p=0.42) and women (p=0.44), yielding positive correlation. There was no statistically significant difference in BDS and SSS values accordingto gender, disease duration or immunomodulatory therapy. In our group of patients, despite low EDSS score (fully ambulatory without aid, self sufficient patients) we found positive correlation between sexual dysfunction and depression, showing that even in such patients the quality of life can be\ndecreased. In conclusion, sexual dysfunction and depression are mostly under-recognized by neurologists because they are not part of routine testing; therefore, some additional questionnaires should be used in the evaluation in MS patients, even those with low EDSS score, in order to improve theirquality of life. labels: #Adult#Comorbidity#Disability Evaluation#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Quality of Life#Sexual Behavior#Sexual Dysfunction, Physiological#Sexual Dysfunctions, Psychological#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of metabolic syndrome factors in obese children by examining blood pressure, lipid status, disorders of glycoregulation, and parameters of insulin sensitivity and secretion. The survey was conducted as a cross sectional study. We\nanalyzed the results of obese children aged 7 to 16 years visiting Clinical Centre of Montenegro during the 2011-2015 period. Out of 173 children with elevated body mass index, 119 (68.8%) children were overweight, while first-degree obesity was recorded in 50 (28.9%) and second-degreeobesity in four (2.3%) children. High blood pressure was found in 35.2%, elevated cholesterol levels in 9.8% and elevated triglyceride levels in 8.09% of obese children. Oral glucose load testing revealed disturbing fasting glycemia in 4.76% and impaired glucose tolerance in 19.04% of obese children.\nHigh values of insulinemia two hours after glucose load were recorded in 35% of obese children. Study results showed the prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular diseases and metabolic disorders, especially carbohydrates and fat, to be very high in our population of obese children. This imposes the needof changing current mode of assessing dietary habits during general medical examinations, as well as to start recording and monitoring overweight children and those with pronounced obesity. labels: #Body Mass Index#Body Weight#Cardiovascular Diseases#Child#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Pediatric Obesity#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Risk Reduction Behavior'
b'Fondaparinux has been shown to be as effective as low molecular weight heparin\nin orthopedic surgery, with no cases of heparin induced thrombocytopenia proven until today. Themain goal of this prospective randomized controlled trial was to define whether thromboprophylaxis\nin patients with primary osteoarthritis of the knee undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) influencesclinical parameters in the same manner in patients receiving fondaparinux as in those receiving\nnadroparin during the first 7 postoperative days. Sixty patients with primary knee osteoarthritis underwentunilateral TKA performed by the same surgeon and were randomized into two groups of 30\npatients receiving either fondaparinux or nadroparin thromboprophylaxis. Patients were comparedaccording to the duration of operation, perioperative blood loss, laboratory results and clinical evaluation\nof the edema during the early postoperative period. No differences were found between thegroups in the mean duration of surgery, perioperative blood loss, and most of laboratory results. The\nlevel of urea was significantly lower in the nadroparin group on the first and second postoperative day.No cases of heparin induced thrombocytopenia, deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism were\nnoted during the study. Study results showed both fondaparinux and nadroparin to have the sameinfluence on clinical parameters during the first 7 postoperative days in patients undergoing TKA. labels: #Adult#Anticoagulants#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee#Factor Xa Inhibitors#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nadroparin#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Polysaccharides#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Venous Thromboembolism'
b'The incidence of pregnancy related diabetes has been steadily increasing during\nthe past decade. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the type and prevalence of gestationaldiabetes complications after implementing new diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes. The\nincidence of gestational diabetes, maternal age, mode of delivery and birth weight were analyzed.Study patients were divided into three groups. The first group consisted of patients who gave birth\nduring 2005, the second group during 2011 and the third group during 2012. In 2005, the WorldHealth Organization criteria were used on diagnosing gestational diabetes, whereas in 2011 and 2012\nthe criteria issued by the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups wereconsidered. There was no statistically significant difference among the groups according to maternal\nage, birth weight (p=0.203) and mode of delivery (p=0.883). Cesarean section was performed in about\n30% of deliveries in all groups combined. There was no significant difference in the number of neonatalhypertrophy (p=0.348), although the distribution of hypertrophy showed a tendency towards higher\nvalues in 2005. The incidence of gestational diabetes was 2.2% in 2005, 6.6% in 2011 and 12% in2012. In conclusion, difference in the incidence of pregnancy related diabetes appeared to have resulted\ndirectly from using different diagnostic criteria. The new criteria contributed to a relativelyhigher incidence of gestational diabetes but also achieved better gestational glycemic control and\nconsequently better fetal growth regulation. labels: #Adult#Birth Weight#Cesarean Section#Diabetes, Gestational#Female#Fetal Macrosomia#Gestational Age#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Premature Birth#Retrospective Studies#Young Adult'
b'Resistance to chemotherapeutics used in the treatment of urinary tract infection is\nincreasing throughout the world. Taking into account clinical experiences, as well as current bacterialresistance in Croatia and neighboring countries, the selection of antibiotic should be the optimal one.\nTreatment of urinary tract infection in children is particularly demanding due to their age and inclinationto severe systemic reaction and renal scarring. If parenteral antibiotics are administered initially,\nit should be switched to oral medication as soon as possible. Financial aspects of antimicrobial therapyare also very important with the main goal to seek the optimal cost/benefit ratio. Financial orientation\nmust appreciate the basic primum non nocere as a conditio sine qua non postulate as well. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-Infective Agents, Urinary#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Child#Child Welfare#Child, Preschool#Critical Pathways#Croatia#Drug Resistance, Microbial#Humans#Infant#Practice Guidelines as Topic#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'Physical activity (PA) during normal pregnancy has various positive effects on\npregnant women\xe2\x80\x99s health. Determination of the relationship between PA and health outcomes requiresaccurate measurement of PA in pregnant women. The purpose of this review is to provide a\nsummary of valid and reliable PA questionnaires for pregnant women. During 2013, Pubmed, OvidSPand Web of Science databases were searched for trials on measurement properties of PA questionnaires\nfor pregnant population. Six studies and four questionnaires met the inclusion criteria: PregnancyPhysical Activity Questionnaire, Modified Kaiser Physical Activity Survey, Short Pregnancy\nLeisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire and Third Pregnancy Infection and Nutrition StudyPhysical Activity Questionnaire. Assessment of validity and reliability was performed using correlations\nof the scores in these questionnaires with objective measures and subjective measures (self-report)of PA, as well as test-retest reliability coefficients. Sample sizes included in analysis varied from\n45 to 177 subjects. The best validity and reliability characteristics (together with effect sizes) wereidentified for the Modified Kaiser Physical Activity Survey and Pregnancy Physical Activity Questionnaire\n(French, Vietnamese, standard). In conclusion, assessment of PA during pregnancy remainsa challenging and complex task. Questionnaires are a simple and effective, yet limited tool for assessing\nPA. labels: #Adult#Exercise#Female#Humans#Motor Activity#Pregnancy#Pregnant Women#Reproducibility of Results#Self Report#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"Obtaining thermostable enzymes (thermozymes) is an important aspect of biotechnology. As thermophiles have adapted their genomes to high temperatures, their cloned genes' expression in mesophiles is problematic. This is mainly due to their high GC content, which leads to the formation of unfavorable secondary mRNA structures and codon usage in Escherichia coli (E. coli). RM.TthHB27I is a member of a family of bifunctional thermozymes, containing a restriction endonuclease (REase) and a methyltransferase (MTase) in a single polypeptide. Thermus thermophilus HB27 (T. thermophilus) produces low amounts of RM.TthHB27I with a unique DNA cleavage specificity. We have previously cloned the wild type (wt) gene into E. coli, which increased the production of RM.TthHB27I over 100-fold. However, its enzymatic activities were extremely low for an ORF expressed under a T7 promoter. We have designed and cloned a fully synthetic tthHB27IRM gene, using a modified 'codon randomization' strategy. Codons with a high GC content and of low occurrence in E. coli were eliminated. We incorporated a stem-loop circuit, devised to negatively control the expression of this highly toxic gene by partially hiding the ribosome-binding site (RBS) and START codon in mRNA secondary structures. Despite having optimized 59% of codons, the amount of produced RM.TthHB27I protein was similar for both recombinant tthHB27IRM gene variants. Moreover, the recombinant wt RM.TthHB27I is very unstable, while the RM.TthHB27I resulting from the expression of the synthetic gene exhibited enzymatic activities and stability equal to the native thermozyme isolated from T. thermophilus. Thus, we have developed an efficient purification protocol using the synthetic tthHB27IRM gene variant only. This suggests the effect of co-translational folding kinetics, possibly affected by the frequency of translational errors. The availability of active RM.TthHB27I is of practical importance in molecular biotechnology, extending the palette of available REase specificities. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Base Composition#Base Sequence#Cloning, Molecular#Codon#DNA Restriction Enzymes#Enzyme Stability#Escherichia coli#Gene Expression#Genes, Synthetic#Hot Temperature#Kinetics#Methyltransferases#Nucleic Acid Conformation#Promoter Regions, Genetic#RNA, Messenger#Recombinant Proteins#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thermus thermophilus"
b'Skeletal development and mineralization are essential processes driven by the coordinated action of neural signals, circulating molecules and local factors. Our previous studies revealed that the novel neuropeptide Pth4, synthesized by hypothalamic cells, was involved in bone metabolism via phosphate regulation in adult zebrafish. Here, we investigate the role of pth4 during skeletal development using single-cell resolution, two-photon laser ablation of Pth4:eGFP-expressing cells and confocal imaging in vivo. Using a stable transgenic Pth4:eGFP zebrafish line, we identify Pth4:eGFP-expressing cells as post-mitotic neurons. After targeted ablation of eGFP-expressing cells in the hypothalamus, the experimental larvae exhibited impaired mineralization of the craniofacial bones whereas cartilage development was normal. In addition to a decrease in pth4 transcript levels, we noted altered expression of phex and entpd5, genes associated with phosphate homeostasis and mineralization, as well as a delay in the expression of osteoblast differentiation markers such as sp7 and sparc. Taken together, these results suggest that Pth4-expressing hypothalamic neurons participate in the regulation of bone metabolism, possibly through regulating phosphate balance during zebrafish development. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Bone Density#Bone and Bones#Calcification, Physiologic#Calcinosis#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Genes, Reporter#Green Fluorescent Proteins#Hypothalamus#Larva#Laser Therapy#Neurons#Osteoblasts#Osteogenesis#Osteonectin#PHEX Phosphate Regulating Neutral Endopeptidase#Parathyroid Hormone-Related Protein#Phosphates#Pyrophosphatases#Signal Transduction#Sp7 Transcription Factor#Transcription Factors#Xenopus Proteins#Zebrafish#Zebrafish Proteins'
b"AIM: We analyzed the cross-sectional and prospective relationships between the accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGE), assessed by skin autofluorescence (AF) and frailty and its components.METHODS: A total of 423 participants of the Bordeaux sample of the Three-City study 75 years of age or older in 2009-2010 were included in the cross-sectional analysis. Among them, 255 initially non-frail participants were re-examined 4 years later. Skin AF (arbitrary units (AU)) was measured using the AGE Reader. Frailty was defined using Fried's criteria. Associations were assessed with logistic regression models.RESULTS: Mean skin AF at baseline was 2.81 \xc2\xb10.68 AU and 16.8% participants were frail. Adjusted for sociodemographic and health characteristics, skin AF was associated neither with prevalent frailty as a whole (Odds Ratio (OR) = 1.2; 95% Confidence Interval: 0.8-1.9) nor with any of its components. Among 255 non-frail participants, 32 became frail over 4 years. In multivariate analyses, skin AF was not associated with incident frailty as a whole (OR = 1.0; 0.5-2.0) but with a doubled risk of incident exhaustion (OR = 2.0; 1.2-3.6) and low energy expenditure (OR = 2.0; 1.1-3.7). No association was observed with other criteria.CONCLUSION: In French older community-dwellers aged 75 years and over, the accumulation of AGEs evaluated by skin AF was not associated with prevalent or incident frailty but with the 4-year risk of exhaustion and low energy expenditure. Further studies with larger samples are needed to confirm our results. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aging#Cross-Sectional Studies#Fatigue#Female#Frail Elderly#France#Geriatric Assessment#Glycation End Products, Advanced#Humans#Independent Living#Logistic Models#Male#Odds Ratio#Optical Imaging#Prospective Studies#Risk Factors#Skin#Skin Aging"
b'OBJECTIVE: There are conflicting data regarding the use of end-tidal carbon dioxide (PetCO2) measurement in preterm infants. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of different dead space to tidal volume ratios (VD/VT) on the correlation between PetCO2 and arterial carbon dioxide pressure (PaCO2) in ventilated preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS).METHODS: We enrolled ventilated preterm infants (with assist control mode or synchronous intermittent mandatory mode) with RDS who were treated with surfactant in this prospective study. Simultaneous PetCO2 and PaCO2 data pairs were obtained from ventilated neonates monitored using mainstream capnography. Data obtained before and after surfactant treatment were also analyzed.RESULTS: One-hundred and one PetCO2 and PaCO2 pairs from 34 neonates were analyzed. There was a moderate correlation between PetCO2 and PaCO2 values (r = 0.603, P<0.01). The correlation was higher in the post-surfactant treatment group (r = 0.786, P<0.01) than the pre-surfactant treatment group (r = 0.235). The values of PaCO2 and PetCO2 obtained based on the treatment stage of surfactant therapy were 42.4 \xc2\xb1 8.6 mmHg and 32.6 \xc2\xb1 7.2 mmHg, respectively, in pre-surfactant treatment group, and 37.8 \xc2\xb1 10.3 mmHg and 33.7 \xc2\xb1 9.3 mmHg, respectively, in the post-surfactant treatment group. Furthermore, we found a significant decrease in VD/VT in the post-surfactant treatment group when compared to the pre-surfactant treatment group (P = 0.003).CONCLUSIONS: VD/VT decreased significantly after surfactant therapy and the correlation between PetCO2 and PaCO2 was higher after surfactant therapy in preterm infants with RDS. labels: #Blood Gas Analysis#Carbon Dioxide#Female#Gestational Age#Humans#Infant, Low Birth Weight#Infant, Newborn#Infant, Premature#Male#Monitoring, Physiologic#Partial Pressure#Prospective Studies#Pulmonary Surfactants#Respiration, Artificial#Respiratory Dead Space#Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Newborn#Tidal Volume'
b'It has been proposed that some non-retroviral RNA virus genes are integrated into vertebrate genomes. Endogenous filovirus-like elements (EFLs) have been discovered in some mammalian genomes. However, their potential roles in ebolavirus infection are unclear. A filovirus VP35-like element (mlEFL35) is found in the little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus) genome. Putative mlEFL35-derived protein (mlEFL35p) contains nearly full-length amino acid sequences corresponding to ebolavirus VP35. Ebola virus VP35 has been shown to bind double-stranded RNA, leading to inhibition of type I interferon (IFN) production, and is also known as a viral polymerase cofactor that is essential for viral RNA transcription/replication. In this study, we transiently expressed mlEFL35p in human kidney cells and investigated its biological functions. We first found that mlEFL35p was coimmunoprecipitated with itself and ebolavirus VP35s but not with the viral nucleoprotein. Then the biological functions of mlEFL35p were analyzed by comparing it to ebolavirus VP35s. We found that the expression of mlEFL35p significantly inhibited human IFN-\xce\xb2 promoter activity as well as VP35s. By contrast, expression of mlEFL35p did not support viral RNA transcription/replication and indeed slightly decrease the reporter gene expression in a minigenome assay. These results suggest that mlEFL35p potentially acts as an IFN antagonist but not a polymerase cofactor. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Chiroptera#Ebolavirus#Gene Expression#Genes, Reporter#HEK293 Cells#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Interferon-beta#Luciferases#Nucleoproteins#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Protein Binding#RNA, Double-Stranded#Recombinant Proteins#Sequence Alignment#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Viral Core Proteins#Virus Replication'
b'While urban systems demonstrate high spatial heterogeneity, many urban planning, economic and political decisions heavily rely on a deep understanding of local neighborhood contexts. We show that the structure of 311 Service Requests enables one possible way of building a unique signature of the local urban context, thus being able to serve as a low-cost decision support tool for urban stakeholders. Considering examples of New York City, Boston and Chicago, we demonstrate how 311 Service Requests recorded and categorized by type in each neighborhood can be utilized to generate a meaningful classification of locations across the city, based on distinctive socioeconomic profiles. Moreover, the 311-based classification of urban neighborhoods can present sufficient information to model various socioeconomic features. Finally, we show that these characteristics are capable of predicting future trends in comparative local real estate prices. We demonstrate 311 Service Requests data can be used to monitor and predict socioeconomic performance of urban neighborhoods, allowing urban stakeholders to quantify the impacts of their interventions. labels: #Boston#Censuses#Chicago#City Planning#Ecology#Forecasting#Housing#Humans#Machine Learning#New York City#Residence Characteristics#Socioeconomic Factors#Spatial Analysis#Urban Population'
b'Thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection are life-threatening complications of Marfan syndrome (MFS). Studies of human and mouse aortic samples from late stage MFS demonstrate increased TGF-\xce\xb2 activation/signaling and diffuse matrix changes. However, the role of the aortic smooth muscle cell (SMC) phenotype in early aneurysm formation in MFS has yet to be fully elucidated. As our objective, we investigated whether an altered aortic SMC phenotype plays a role in aneurysm formation in MFS. We describe previously unrecognized concordant findings in the aortas of a murine model of MFS, mgR, during a critical and dynamic phase of early development. Using Western blot, gelatin zymography, and histological analysis, we demonstrated that at postnatal day (PD) 7, before aortic TGF-\xce\xb2 levels are increased, there is elastic fiber fragmentation/disorganization and increased levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Compared to wild type (WT) littermates, aortic SMCs in mgR mice express higher levels of contractile proteins suggesting a switch to a more mature contractile phenotype. In addition, tropoelastin levels are decreased in mgR mice, a finding consistent with a premature switch to a contractile phenotype. Proliferation assays indicate a decrease in the proliferation rate of mgR cultured SMCs compared to WT SMCs. KLF4, a regulator of smooth muscle cell phenotype, was decreased in aortic tissue of mgR mice. Finally, overexpression of KLF4 partially reversed this phenotypic change in the Marfan SMCs. This study indicates that an early phenotypic switch appears to be associated with initiation of important metabolic changes in SMCs that contribute to subsequent pathology in MFS. labels: #Animals#Aorta, Thoracic#Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic#Cell Differentiation#Cell Proliferation#Elastic Tissue#Extracellular Matrix#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors#Marfan Syndrome#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Matrix Metalloproteinase 9#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Myocytes, Smooth Muscle#Phenotype#Primary Cell Culture#Signal Transduction#Transforming Growth Factor beta#Tropoelastin'
b"As the detrimental health effects of sedentary behaviour are well established, insight into the individual and environmental factors that influence adults' sedentary behaviour is needed. Most studies to date rely on self-reported measures of sedentary time. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to examine individual and environmental correlates of objectively measured sedentary time in Dutch and Belgian adults. Between March and August 2014, Belgian (n = 133) and Dutch (n = 223) adults, recruited as sub-sample of the SPOTLIGHT survey, wore an ActiGraph accelerometer to provide objectively measured sedentary and moderate to vigorous physical activity time. Participants completed a questionnaire assessing sociodemographic (country of residence, age, gender and educational level), lifestyle (sleep, smoking, sugar-containing beverage consumption, alcohol intake), health (body mass index, self-rated health), work (employment status and type of work), happiness, physical environmental (owning a car, number of screens, socioeconomic status and residential density) and social environmental factors (social network, social cohesion). Univariate and multivariable regression analyses showed that Belgian participants had a lower odds of being sedentary for at least 9 hours per day compared to Dutch participants. Women, older participants and those meeting the WHO recommendation for physical activity were also less likely to sit for 9 hours or more per day. Participants doing (heavy) manual work or being in education, homemaker, unemployed had lower odds of being sedentary for at least 9 hours per day compared to participants with a sitting job. Those with a higher self-reported social network also had lower odds for sedentary time. No associations between physical and other social environmental characteristics and sedentary time were found. Our findings add to the growing evidence of factors associated with prolonged sedentary time in adults. These findings may be used to inform the development of strategies and interventions aimed at reducing sedentary time, and to identify high risk groups. labels: #Accelerometry#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Belgium#Cross-Sectional Studies#Employment#Exercise#Female#Humans#Leisure Activities#Male#Middle Aged#Netherlands#Risk Reduction Behavior#Sedentary Lifestyle#Self Report#Social Class#Social Networking#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'Despite global efforts to improve maternal health, many developing countries including Pakistan have failed to achieve the target of a 75% reduction in maternal deaths by 2015. Addressing socioeconomic inequalities in access to emergency obstetric care is crucial for reducing the maternal mortality rate. This study was done to examine the time trends and socioeconomic inequalities in the utilization of cesarean section (C-section) in Pakistan during 1990-2013. We used data from the Pakistan Demographic and Health Surveys (PDHS) conducted during 1990 to 2013. All these surveys are nationally representative surveys of ever-married women aged 15-49 years with a sample size of 6611, 10,023, and 13,558 women in 1990-1991, 2006-2007, and 2012-2013, respectively, with an overall response rate of over 90%. The unit of analysis for this study was women with their most recent live birth in the five years preceding the surveys. Bivariate analyses and multivariable logistic regression models were employed to investigate the prevalence of cesarean sections according to selected sociodemographic characteristics of women. C-section rates were found to have increased during this period, with an especially significant rise from 2.7% in 1990-1991 to 15.8% in 2012-2013 with lower utilization among the non-educated women (7.5%), compared with the women with higher education (40.3%). C-section rates ranged from 5.5% in the poorest women to 35.3% in the richest women. Only 11.5% of the rural women had a C-section compared to 25.6% of the urban women. A greater likelihood of having a cesarean section was observed in the richest, highly educated, and urban-living women while there was no significant difference observed in cesarean section rates between the private and public sectors in all three surveys. To improve maternal health, routine monitoring and evaluation of the provision of emergency obstetric services are needed to address the underuse of C-section in poor and rural areas and overuse in rich and urban areas. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Cesarean Section#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Maternal Health Services#Middle Aged#Pakistan#Pregnancy#Rural Population#Socioeconomic Factors#Urban Population'
b'BACKGROUND: Recurrent influenza outbreak has been a concern for government health institutions in Taiwan. Over 10% of the population is infected by influenza viruses every year, and the infection has caused losses to both health and the economy. Approximately three million free vaccine doses are ordered and administered to high-risk populations at the beginning of flu season to control the disease. The government recommends sharing and redistributing vaccine inventories when shortages occur. While this policy intends to increase inventory flexibility, and has been proven as widely valuable, its impact on vaccine availability has not been previously reported.MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study developed an inventory model adapted to vaccination protocols to evaluate government recommended polices under different levels of vaccine production. Demands were uncertain and stratified by ages and locations according to the demographic data in Taiwan.RESULTS: When vaccine supply is sufficient, sharing pediatric vaccine reduced vaccine unavailability by 43% and overstock by 54%, and sharing adult vaccine reduced vaccine unavailability by 9% and overstock by 15%. Redistributing vaccines obtained greater gains for both pediatrics and adults (by 75%). When the vaccine supply is in short, only sharing pediatric vaccine yielded a 48% reduction of unused inventory, while other polices do not improve performances.CONCLUSIONS: When implementing vaccination activities for seasonal influenza intervention, it is important to consider mismatches of demand and vaccine inventory. Our model confirmed that sharing and redistributing vaccines can substantially increase availability and reduce unused vaccines. labels: #Adult#Child#Female#Humans#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human#Male#Mass Vaccination#Orthomyxoviridae#Risk Sharing, Financial#Taiwan'
b'RESULTS: First, in patients receiving two different combinations of DAAs, we found that DAAs induced not only rapid viral clearance, but also a re-setting of antiviral immune responses in the peripheral blood. Specifically, we see a rapid decline in the expression of genes associated with chronic IFN stimulation (IFIT3, USP18, IFIT1) as well as a rapid decline in genes associated with inflammation (IL1\xce\xb2, CXCL10, CXCL11) in the peripheral blood that precedes the complete removal of virus from the blood. Interestingly, this rapid reversal of innate immune activation was not seen in patients who successfully clear chronic HCV infection using IFN-based therapy. Next, using a novel humanized mouse model (Fah-/-RAG2-/-IL2rgnull-FRG), we assessed the changes that occur in the hepatic tissue following DAA treatment. DAA-mediated rapid HCV clearance resulted in blunting of the expression of proinflammatory responses while functionally restoring the RIG-I/MAVS axis in the liver of humanized mice.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our data demonstrate that the rapid viral clearance following treatment with DAAs results in the rebalancing of innate antiviral response in both the peripheral blood and the liver as well as enhanced antiviral signaling within previously infected hepatocytes. labels: #Aged#Animals#Antiviral Agents#Benzazepines#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Hepatocytes#Humans#Imidazoles#Immunity, Innate#Indoles#Inflammation#Isoquinolines#Liver#Male#Mice#Middle Aged#Sulfonamides'
b'Understanding habitat selection of gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) is essential to evaluate their potential response to changes in land use and predator communities. Few studies have evaluated temporal habitat selection or explicitly identified habitats used by gray foxes for diurnal refugia. We used GPS collars to obtain location data for 34 gray foxes (20 males and 14 females) from February 2014 to December 2015 to evaluate temporal (seasonal and diel) habitat selection and selection of diurnal refugia in southwestern Georgia, USA. We analyzed habitat selection at 2 levels, selection of a core area within the home range and selection of locations within the home range. Habitat selection was non-random (P<0.001) but consistent among seasons, between day and night, and between sexes (P>0.05). Hardwoods, human use (i.e., areas associated with regular human activity such as buildings, lawns, parking areas, etc.), and roads were selected (P<0.05), whereas pine dominated stands were used randomly (P>0.05). Selection of habitats for diurnal refugia did not vary seasonally or by sex (P>0.05), with foxes selecting (P<0.05) areas near hardwood forests, roads, agriculture, human use, pastures/food plots, and shrub scrub habitats. Gray foxes were observed on the ground while resting, and we found no evidence of gray foxes diurnally resting in trees. Our results suggest that on our study area, gray foxes are an edge species that prefer forests with a hardwood component in areas near human use and roads. labels: #Agriculture#Animals#Circadian Rhythm#Ecosystem#Female#Forests#Foxes#Geographic Information Systems#Georgia#Human Activities#Humans#Male#Predatory Behavior#Refugium#Transportation'
b'OBJECTIVE: Previous studies demonstrated that circulating microRNA-375 (miR-375) is a suitable plasma biomarker for real-time detection of beta cell death. The present study evaluated the use of this biomarker to assess the beta cytoprotective effect of phenylpropenoic acid glucoside (PPAG), which was previously demonstrated to protect beta cells against various types of injury, and of exendin-4, which is an established antidiabetic drug.METHODS: PPAG or exendin-4 were administered in mice treated with streptozotocin (STZ) to acutely induce beta cell death. Beta cell mass and apoptotic death were measured in pancreatic tissue sections. Circulating miR-375 was measured in blood plasma by RT-qPCR. The release of miR-375 was also measured in vitro by MIN-6 beta cells.RESULTS: Administration of STZ resulted in measurable circulating levels of miR-375, a decrease in beta cell mass and increase in frequency of apoptotic beta cells. In vitro, there was a good correlation between miR-375 release and the extent of beta cell death. Treatment of mice with PPAG or exendin-4 significantly attenuated STZ-induced loss of beta cell mass and beta cell apoptosis, and normalized the blood level of miR-375.CONCLUSIONS: These findings show the potential use of serological miR-375 measurements to evaluate the beta cytoprotective effect of (potential) antidiabetic drugs in vivo. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Cell Line#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Glucosides#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin-Secreting Cells#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#MicroRNAs#Pancreas#Peptides#Phenylpropionates#Protective Agents#Streptozocin#Venoms'
b'BACKGROUND: Alcohol use is a global health issue and may influence activity performance in a variety of domains, including the occupational and domestic spheres. The aim of the study was to examine the influence of annual drinking frequency and binge drinking (\xe2\x89\xa56 units at one occasion) on activity impairments both at work (sickness presenteeism) and outside the workplace.METHODS: Employees (n = 3278), recruited from 14 Norwegian private and public companies, responded to a questionnaire containing questions from the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) and the Workplace Productivity and Activity Impairment questionnaire (WPAI).RESULTS: Multiple hierarchical regression analyses revealed that binge drinking was associated with both sickness presenteeism and impaired daily activities, even after controlling for gender, age, educational level, living status and employment sector. Annual drinking frequency was associated with impaired daily activities, but not sickness presenteeism.CONCLUSIONS: Binge drinking seems to have a stronger influence on activity performance both at work and outside the workplace than drinking frequency. Interventions targeting alcohol consumption should benefit from focusing on binge drinking behavior. labels: #Absenteeism#Adult#Alcohol Drinking#Cross-Sectional Studies#Efficiency#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Norway#Presenteeism#Surveys and Questionnaires#Workplace'
b'Glioblastoma is highly aggressive. Early dispersal of the primary tumor renders localized therapy ineffective. Recurrence always occurs and leads to patient death. Prior studies have shown that dispersal of Glioblastoma can be significantly reduced by Dexamethasone (Dex), a drug currently used to control brain tumor related edema. However, due to high doses and significant side effects, treatment is tapered and discontinued as soon as edema has resolved. Prior analyses of the dispersal inhibitory effects of Dex were performed on tissue culture plastic, or polystyrene filters seeded with normal human astrocytes, conditions which inherently differ from the parenchymal architecture of neuronal tissue. The aim of this study was to utilize an ex-vivo model to examine Dex-mediated inhibition of tumor cell migration from low-passage, human Glioblastoma neurospheres on multiple substrates including mouse retina, and slices of mouse, pig, and human brain. We also determined the lowest possible Dex dose that can inhibit dispersal. Analysis by Two-Factor ANOVA shows that for GBM-2 and GBM-3, Dex treatment significantly reduces dispersal on all tissue types. However, the magnitude of the effect appears to be tissue-type specific. Moreover, there does not appear to be a difference in Dex-mediated inhibition of dispersal between mouse retina, mouse brain and human brain. To estimate the lowest possible dose at which Dex can inhibit dispersal, LogEC50 values were compared by Extra Sum-of-Squares F-test. We show that it is possible to achieve 50% reduction in dispersal with Dex doses ranging from 3.8 x10-8M to 8.0x10-9M for GBM-2, and 4.3x10-8M to 1.8x10-9M for GBM-3, on mouse retina and brain slices, respectively. These doses are 3-30-fold lower than those used to control edema. This study extends our previous in vitro data and identifies the mouse retina as a potential substrate for in vivo studies of GBM dispersal. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal#Brain#Cell Movement#Dexamethasone#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Feeder Cells#Humans#Mice#Microtomy#Neuroglia#Retina#Spheroids, Cellular#Swine#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Minced muscle grafts (MG) promote de novo muscle fiber regeneration and neuromuscular strength recovery in small and large animal models of volumetric muscle loss. The most noteworthy limitation of this approach is its reliance on a finite supply of donor tissue. To address this shortcoming, this study sought to evaluate micronized acellular urinary bladder matrix (UBM) as a scaffolding to promote in vivo expansion of this MG therapy in a rat model. Rats received volumetric muscle loss injuries to the tibialis anterior muscle of their left hind limb which were either left untreated or repaired with minced muscle graft at dosages of 50% and 100% of the defect mass, urinary bladder matrix in isolation, or a with an expansion product consisting of a combination of the two putative therapies in which the minced graft is delivered at a dosage of 50% of the defect mass. Rats survived to 2 and 8 weeks post injury before functional (in vivo neuromuscular strength), histological, morphological, and biochemical analyses were performed. Rats treated with the expansion product exhibited improved neuromuscular function relative to untreated VML after an 8 week time period following injury. This improvement in functional capacity, however, was accompanied with a concomitant reduction in graft mediated regeneration, as evidenced cell lineage tracing enable by a transgenic GFP expressing donor, and a mixed histological outcome indicating coincident fibrous matrix deposition with interspersed islands of nascent muscle fibers. Furthermore, quantitative immunofluorescence and transcriptional analysis following the 2 week time point suggests an exacerbated immune response to the UBM as a possible nidus for the observed suboptimal regenerative outcome. Moving forward, efforts related to the development of a MG expansion product should carefully consider the effects of the host immune response to candidate biomaterials in order to avoid undesirable dysregulation of pro-regenerative cross talk between the immune system and myogenic processes. labels: #Animals#Extracellular Matrix#Male#Muscle, Skeletal#Rats#Rats, Inbred Lew#Rats, Transgenic#Recovery of Function#Regeneration#Tissue Engineering#Tissue Scaffolds#Transplantation, Homologous#Urinary Bladder'
b'We argue that the series of traits characterizing Borderline Personality Disorder samples do not weigh equally. In this regard, we believe that network approaches employed recently in Personality and Psychopathology research to provide information about the differential relationships among symptoms would be useful to test our claim. To our knowledge, this approach has never been applied to personality disorders. We applied network analysis to the nine Borderline Personality Disorder traits to explore their relationships in two samples drawn from university students and clinical populations (N = 1317 and N = 96, respectively). We used the Fused Graphical Lasso, a technique that allows estimating networks from different populations separately while considering their similarities and differences. Moreover, we examined centrality indices to determine the relative importance of each symptom in each network. The general structure of the two networks was very similar in the two samples, although some differences were detected. Results indicate the centrality of mainly affective instability, identity, and effort to avoid abandonment aspects in Borderline Personality Disorder. Results are consistent with the new DSM Alternative Model for Personality Disorders. We discuss them in terms of implications for therapy. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Affective Symptoms#Aged#Avoidance Learning#Borderline Personality Disorder#Case-Control Studies#Dependency (Psychology)#Depression#Female#Humans#Identity Crisis#Male#Middle Aged#Narcissism#Neural Networks (Computer)#Obsessive Behavior#Passive-Aggressive Personality Disorder#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales'
b'Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) primarily resides in the lung but can also persist in extrapulmonary sites. Macrophages are considered the prime cellular habitat in all tissues. Here we demonstrate that Mtb resides inside adipocytes of fat tissue where it expresses stress-related genes. Moreover, perigonadal fat of Mtb-infected mice disseminated the infection when transferred to uninfected animals. Adipose tissue harbors leukocytes in addition to adipocytes and other cell types and we observed that Mtb infection induces changes in adipose tissue biology depending on stage of infection. Mice infected via aerosol showed infiltration of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) or arginase 1 (Arg1)-negative F4/80+ cells, despite recruitment of CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Gene expression analysis of adipose tissue of aerosol Mtb-infected mice provided evidence for upregulated expression of genes associated with T cells and NK cells at 28 days post-infection. Strikingly, IFN-\xce\xb3-producing NK cells and Mtb-specific CD8+ T cells were identified in perigonadal fat, specifically CD8+CD44-CD69+ and CD8+CD44-CD103+ subpopulations. Gene expression analysis of these cells revealed that they expressed IFN-\xce\xb3 and the lectin-like receptor Klrg1 and down-regulated CD27 and CD62L, consistent with an effector phenotype of Mtb-specific CD8+ T cells. Sorted NK cells expressed higher abundance of Klrg1 upon infection, as well. Our results reveal the ability of Mtb to persist in adipose tissue in a stressed state, and that NK cells and Mtb-specific CD8+ T cells infiltrate infected adipose tissue where they produce IFN-\xce\xb3 and assume an effector phenotype. We conclude that adipose tissue is a potential niche for Mtb and that due to infection CD8+ T cells and NK cells are attracted to this tissue. labels: #Adipocytes#Adipose Tissue#Animals#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Humans#Killer Cells, Natural#Mice#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Tuberculosis#Virus Latency'
b'The fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), which causes the disease chytridiomycosis, has been linked to catastrophic amphibian declines throughout the world. Amphibians differ in their vulnerability to chytridiomycosis; some species experience epizootics followed by collapse while others exhibit stable host/pathogen dynamics where most amphibian hosts survive in the presence of Bd (e.g., in the enzootic state). Little is known about the factors that drive the transition between the two disease states within a community, or whether populations of species that survived the initial epizootic are stable, yet this information is essential for conservation and theory. Our study focuses on a diverse Peruvian amphibian community that experienced a Bd-caused collapse. We explore host/Bd dynamics of eight surviving species a decade after the mass extinction by using population level disease metrics and Bd-susceptibility trials. We found that three of the eight species continue to be susceptible to Bd, and that their populations are declining. Only one species is growing in numbers and it was non-susceptible in our trials. Our study suggests that some species remain vulnerable to Bd and exhibit ongoing population declines in enzootic systems where Bd-host dynamics are assumed to be stable. labels: #Animals#Anura#Chytridiomycota#Disease Resistance#Disease Susceptibility#Female#Host Specificity#Male#Mycoses#Peru#Population Dynamics'
b'Restriction factors are important components of intrinsic cellular defense mechanisms against viral pathogens. TRIM5\xce\xb1 is a restriction factor that intercepts the incoming capsid cores of retroviruses such as HIV and provides an effective species-specific barrier to retroviral infection. The TRIM5\xce\xb1 SPRY domain directly binds the capsid with only very weak, millimolar-level affinity, and productive capsid recognition therefore requires both TRIM5\xce\xb1 dimerization and assembly of the dimers into a multivalent hexagonal lattice to promote avid binding. Here, we explore the important unresolved question of whether the SPRY domains are flexibly linked to the TRIM lattice or more precisely positioned to maximize avidity. Biochemical and biophysical experiments indicate that the linker segment connecting the SPRY domain to the coiled-coil domain adopts an \xce\xb1-helical fold, and that this helical portion mediates interactions between the two domains. Targeted mutations were generated to disrupt the putative packing interface without affecting dimerization or higher-order assembly, and we identified mutant proteins that were nevertheless deficient in capsid binding in vitro and restriction activity in cells. Our studies therefore support a model wherein substantial avidity gains during assembly-mediated capsid recognition by TRIM5\xce\xb1 come in part from tailored spacing of tethered recognition domains. labels: #Animals#Capsid#Carrier Proteins#Humans#Models, Molecular#Protein Structure, Secondary#Retroviridae'
b'METHODS: We conducted a retrospective national mortuary based study to identify all adult female homicides (18 years and older) and all child homicides (boys and girls<18 years) in 2009 in a randomly selected, proportionate sample of mortuaries. Victim, perpetrator and crime data were collected in three processes: from the mortuary register, the autopsy report and from police with the identification of sexual homicides validated across the data collection processes.FINDINGS: Among the 2670 (95% CI: 2311-2979) adult women killed in 2009, 494 (95% CI: 406-574) were identified as sexual homicides which was 19.8% (95% CI: 17.6-22.0) of all adult female homicides and among 1277 (95% CI: 1091-1462) children killed in SA, sexual homicides were found in 104 (95% CI: 77-132) of the child homicides which was 8.7% (95% CI: 10.9-11.2%) of these murders. Strangulation was the most common cause of death for both children and adult females. A distinct age and sex pattern was found among children with only 1% boy child death identified as a sexual homicide and 92% of all the child sexual homicides were among girls. Strangulation was the most common manner of death among children (35.5%) and perpetrators were seldom strangers. However, no difference in the proportion of convictions between the sexual homicides and non-sexual homicides were found for both adult females and children.CONCLUSION: Rape homicide is not a rare event in South Africa, with one in five female homicides and nearly one in ten child homicides identified with an associated sexual crime. These high prevalences are amongst the highest levels reported in the literature with our study among the few reporting on the epidemiology of child sexual homicide. Reducing mortality is an important policy goal for South Africa and for the rest of the world and the prevention of female and child homicide is an important part of attaining this goal. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Asphyxia#Autopsy#Child#Child Abuse, Sexual#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Homicide#Humans#Male#Morgue#Prevalence#Rape#Retrospective Studies#Sex Distribution#South Africa'
b'SHARPIN (Shank-Associated RH Domain-Interacting Protein) is a component of the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC), which enhances TNF-induced NF-\xce\xbaB activity. SHARPIN-deficient (Sharpincpdm/cpdm) mice display multi-organ inflammation and chronic proliferative dermatitis (cpdm) due to TNF-induced keratinocyte apoptosis. In cells, SHARPIN also inhibits integrins independently of LUBAC, but it has remained enigmatic whether elevated integrin activity levels in the dermis of Sharpincpdm/cpdm mice is due to increased integrin activity or is secondary to inflammation. In addition, the functional contribution of increased integrin activation to the Sharpincpdm/cpdm phenotype has not been investigated. Here, we find increased integrin activity in keratinocytes from Tnfr1-/- Sharpincpdm/cpdm double knockout mice, which do not display chronic inflammation or proliferative dermatitis, thus suggesting that SHARPIN indeed acts as an integrin inhibitor in vivo. In addition, we present evidence for a functional contribution of integrin activity to the Sharpincpdm/cpdm skin phenotype. Treatment with an integrin beta 1 function blocking antibody reduced epidermal hyperproliferation and epidermal thickness in Sharpincpdm/cpdm mice. Our data indicate that, while TNF-induced cell death triggers the chronic inflammation and proliferative dermatitis, absence of SHARPIN-dependent integrin inhibition exacerbates the epidermal hyperproliferation in Sharpincpdm/cpdm mice. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Apoptosis#Carrier Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Chronic Disease#Dermatitis#Epidermis#Female#Gene Deletion#Gene Expression Regulation#Inflammation#Integrin beta1#Keratinocytes#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#NF-kappa B#Phenotype#Receptors, Tumor Necrosis Factor, Type I#Signal Transduction#Ubiquitin'
b"We evaluated the relationship between altered foot function and knee osteoarthritis through a specific comparison of toe grip strength in older women with and without knee osteoarthritis. Participants were 120 women with knee osteoarthritis (OA group) and 108 healthy community-dwelling women with no history of knee pain and lower limb surgery (control group). The following factors and outcome variables were included in our analysis: measured toe grip strength, isometric knee extension strength, the timed Up-and-Go, and the WOMAC scale. Between-group differences were compared using unpaired t-tests for descriptive characteristics and outcome measures. Pearson's correlation coefficients between toe grip strength and age, body mass index, and other outcome measures were calculated. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate the independence of toe grip strength and knee osteoarthritis. Compared to the control group, participants in the OA group were older, heavier, and had a higher body mass index. Toe grip strength and isometric knee extension strength were lower and the timed Up-and-Go longer for the OA group than the control group. Toe grip strength was correlated with age negatively and isometric knee extension strength positively in the OA group and to age and the timed Up-and-Go negatively, and isometric knee extension strength positively in the control group. Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that body mass index, isometric knee extensor strength, and toe grip strength were independently associated with knee osteoarthritis. Our findings indicate a probable association between altered forefoot function and the incidence or progression of knee osteoarthritis. Increasing toe grip strength might provide a practical intervention for patients with knee osteoarthritis. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Body Mass Index#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Independent Living#Isometric Contraction#Knee Joint#Logistic Models#Muscle Strength#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Pain#Severity of Illness Index#Toes"
b'Wilms tumour (WT) is an embryonal tumour that recapitulates kidney development. The normal kidney is formed from two distinct embryological origins: the metanephric mesenchyme (MM) and the ureteric bud (UB). It is generally accepted that WT arises from precursor cells in the MM; however whether UB-equivalent structures participate in tumorigenesis is uncertain. To address the question of the involvement of UB, we assessed 55 Wilms tumours for the molecular features of MM and UB using gene expression profiling, immunohistochemsitry and immunofluorescence. Expression profiling primarily based on the Genitourinary Molecular Anatomy Project data identified molecular signatures of the UB and collecting duct as well as those of the proximal and distal tubules in the triphasic histology group. We performed immunolabeling for fetal kidneys and WTs. We focused on a central epithelial blastema pattern which is the characteristic of triphasic histology characterized by UB-like epithelial structures surrounded by MM and MM-derived epithelial structures, evoking the induction/aggregation phase of the developing kidney. The UB-like epithelial structures and surrounding MM and epithelial structures resembling early glomerular epithelium, proximal and distal tubules showed similar expression patterns to those of the developing kidney. These observations indicate WTs can arise from a precursor cell capable of generating the entire kidney, such as the cells of the intermediate mesoderm from which both the MM and UB are derived. Moreover, this provides an explanation for the variable histological features of mesenchymal to epithelial differentiation seen in WT. labels: #Carcinogenesis#Cell Differentiation#Cell Membrane#Fetus#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Humans#Kidney#Mesoderm#Organ Culture Techniques#Organogenesis#Ureter#Wilms Tumor'
b"This paper aimed to investigate the role of parental education in child disability in China. We used nationally representative data from China's National Sample Survey on Disability, iterated twice, in 1987 and 2006, with data of 764,718 children aged 0-14 years. Logit models were used for statistical analysis. Results showed that the prevalence of child disability was significantly associated with each parent's education. Maternal education was more important than paternal education in child disability in both surveys. The analysis of marginal effect indicated a one-year increase in maternal and paternal schooling led to an average decrease of 0.121% and 0.091% in the probability of child disability in 1987, and 19 years later, these figures had dwindled to 0.091% and 0.072%, respectively. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#China#Disabled Children#Female#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Logistic Models#Male#Parents#Patient Education as Topic#Risk Factors#Socioeconomic Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: The Chiranjeevi Yojana (CY) is a Public-Private-Partnership between the state and private obstetricians in Gujarat, India, since 2007. The state pays for institutional births of the most vulnerable households (below-poverty-line and tribal) in private hospitals. An innovative remuneration package has been designed to disincentivise unnecessary cesareans. This study examines characteristics of private facilities which participated in the program.METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional survey of all facilities which had conducted any births between June 2012 and April 2013 in three districts. We identified 111 private and 47 public facilities. Ninety of the 111 private facilities did caesarean sections in the last three months and were eligible to participate in the CY program. Of these, 40 (44%) participated in the CY program. We conducted descriptive and bivariate analyses followed by a Poisson regression model to estimate prevalence ratios of facility characteristics that predicted participation.RESULTS: We found that facilities participating in the CY program had a significantly higher likelihood of being general facilities (PR 1.9, 95% CI 1.3-2.9), or conducting lower proportion of cesarean births (PR 2.1, 95% CI 1.2-3.5) or having obstetricians new in private practice (PR 1.9, 95% CI 1.2-3.1) or being less expensive (PR 1.8, 95% CI 1.1-3.0). But none of these factors retained significance in a multi variable model.CONCLUSION: Private obstetricians who participate in the CY program tend to be new to private practice, provide general services, conduct fewer caesareans and are also less expensive. This is advantageous to the PPP and widens the target beneficiary groups that can be serviced by the PPP. The state should design remuneration packages with the aim of attracting relatively new obstetricians to set up practices in more remote areas. It is possible that the CY remuneration package design is effective in keeping caesarean rates in check, and needs to be studied further. labels: #Adult#Analysis of Variance#Cesarean Section#Cross-Sectional Studies#Delivery, Obstetric#Female#Health Facilities#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#India#Maternal Health Services#Poverty#Pregnancy#Public-Private Sector Partnerships#Universal Coverage'
b'Changes in dermoscopic patterns of naevi may be associated with melanoma; however, there is no consensus on which dermoscopic classification system is optimal. To determine whether different classification systems give comparable results and can be combined for analysis, we applied two systems to a case-control study of melanoma with 1037 participants: 573 classified using a "1/3 major feature" system, 464 classified based on rules of appearance, and 263 classified with both criteria. There was strong correlation for non-specific (Spearman R = 0.96) and reticular (Spearman R = 0.82) naevi, with a slight bias for globular naevi with the rules of appearance system. Inter-observer reliability was high for the rules of appearance system, particularly for reticular naevi (Pearson>0.97). We show that different classification systems for naevi can be combined for data analysis, and describe a method for determining what adjustments may need to be applied to combine data sets. labels: #Adult#Analysis of Variance#Case-Control Studies#Dermoscopy#Female#Humans#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Nevus, Pigmented#Observer Variation#Reproducibility of Results#Skin Neoplasms#Terminology as Topic'
b'Extended spectrum \xce\xb2-lactamase producing Escherichia coli (ESBL-EC) are excreted via effluents and sewage into the environment where they can re-contaminate humans and animals. The aim of this observational study was to detect and quantify ESBL-EC in recreational water and wastewater, and perform a genetic and phenotypic comparative analysis of the environmental strains with geographically associated human urinary ESBL-EC. Recreational fresh- and saltwater samples from four different beaches and wastewater samples from a nearby sewage plant were filtered and cultured on differential and ESBL-selective media. After antimicrobial susceptibility testing and multi-locus variable number of tandem repeats assay (MLVA), selected ESBL-EC strains from recreational water were characterized by whole genome sequencing (WGS) and compared to wastewater and human urine isolates from people living in the same area. We detected ESBL-EC in recreational water samples on 8/20 occasions (40%), representing all sites. The ratio of ESBL-EC to total number of E. coli colony forming units varied from 0 to 3.8%. ESBL-EC were present in all wastewater samples in ratios of 0.56-0.75%. ST131 was most prevalent in urine and wastewater samples, while ST10 dominated in water samples. Eight STs and identical ESBL-EC MLVA-types were detected in all compartments. Clinical ESBL-EC isolates were more likely to be multidrug-resistant (p<0.001). This study confirms that ESBL-EC, including those that are capable of causing human infection, are present in recreational waters where there is a potential for human exposure and subsequent gut colonisation and infection in bathers. Multidrug-resistant E. coli strains are present in urban aquatic environments even in countries where antibiotic consumption in both humans and animals is highly restricted. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bathing Beaches#Drug Resistance, Multiple, Bacterial#Epidemiological Monitoring#Escherichia coli#Escherichia coli Infections#Fresh Water#Gene Expression#Genome, Bacterial#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Multilocus Sequence Typing#Norway#Recreation#Urinary Tract Infections#Waste Water#Water Microbiology#beta-Lactamases'
b'The degree to which terrestrial vertebrate populations are depleted in tropical forests occupied by human communities has been the subject of an intense polarising debate that has important conservation implications. Conservation ecologists and practitioners are divided over the extent to which community-based subsistence offtake is compatible with ecologically functional populations of tropical forest game species. To quantify depletion envelopes of forest vertebrates around human communities, we deployed a total of 383 camera trap stations and 78 quantitative interviews to survey the peri-community areas controlled by 60 semi-subsistence communities over a combined area of over 3.2 million hectares in the M\xc3\xa9dio Juru\xc3\xa1 and Uatum\xc3\xa3 regions of Central-Western Brazilian Amazonia. Our results largely conform with prior evidence that hunting large-bodied vertebrates reduces wildlife populations near settlements, such that they are only found at a distance to settlements where they are hunted less frequently. Camera trap data suggest that a select few harvest-sensitive species, including lowland tapir, are either repelled or depleted by human communities. Nocturnal and cathemeral species were detected relatively more frequently in disturbed areas close to communities, but individual species did not necessarily shift their activity patterns. Group biomass of all species was depressed in the wider neighbourhood of urban areas rather than communities. Interview data suggest that species traits, especially group size and body mass, mediate these relationships. Large-bodied, large-group-living species are detected farther from communities as reported by experienced informants. Long-established communities in our study regions have not "emptied" the surrounding forest. Low human population density and low hunting offtake due to abundant sources of alternative aquatic protein, suggest that these communities represent a best-case scenario for sustainable hunting of wildlife for food, thereby providing a conservative assessment of game depletion. Given this \'best-case\' camera trap and interview-based evidence for hunting depletion, regions with higher human population densities, external trade in wildlife and limited access to alternative protein will likely exhibit more severe depletion. labels: #Animal Distribution#Animals#Animals, Wild#Biomass#Body Weight#Brazil#Conservation of Natural Resources#Diet, Paleolithic#Female#Forests#Humans#Male#Population Density#Residence Characteristics#Rural Population#Vertebrates'
b'The PTPN22R620W single nucleotide polymorphism increases the risk of developing multiple autoimmune diseases including type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. PTPN22 is highly expressed in antigen presenting cells (APCs) where the expression of the murine disease associated variant orthologue (Ptpn22R619W) is reported to dysregulate pattern recognition receptor signalling in dendritic cells (DCs) and promote T-cell proliferation. Because T-cell activation is dependent on DC antigen uptake, degradation and presentation, we analysed the efficiency of these functions in splenic and GM-CSF bone marrow derived DC from wild type (WT), Ptpn22-/- or Ptpn22R619W mutant mice. Results indicated no differential ability of DCs to uptake antigen via macropinocytosis or receptor-mediated endocytosis. Antigen degradation and presentation was also equal as was WT T-cell conjugate formation and subsequent T-cell proliferation. Despite the likely presence of multiple phosphatase-regulated pathways in the antigen uptake, processing and presentation pathways that we investigated, we observed that Ptpn22 and the R619W autoimmune associated variant were dispensable. These important findings indicate that under non-inflammatory conditions there is no requirement for Ptpn22 in DC dependent antigen uptake and T-cell activation. Our findings reveal that perturbations in antigen uptake and processing, a fundamental pathway determining adaptive immune responses, are unlikely to provide a mechanism for the risk associated with the Ptpn22 autoimmune associated polymorphism. labels: #Animals#Antigen Presentation#Antigens, Bacterial#Coculture Techniques#Dendritic Cells#Endocytosis#Fluorescent Dyes#Gene Expression#Immunological Synapses#Listeria monocytogenes#Lymphocyte Activation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Ovalbumin#Pinocytosis#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase, Non-Receptor Type 22#Signal Transduction#Staining and Labeling#T-Lymphocytes'
b"The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently released a five star rating system as part of 'Dialysis Facility Compare' to help patients identify and choose high performing clinics in the US. Eight dialysis-related measures determine ratings. Little is known about the association between surrounding community sociodemographic characteristics and star ratings. Using data from the U.S. Census and over 6000 dialysis clinics across the country, we examined the association between dialysis clinic star ratings and characteristics of the local population: 1) proportion of population below the federal poverty level (FPL); 2) proportion of black individuals; and 3) proportion of Hispanic individuals, by correlation and regression analyses. Secondary analyses with Quality Incentive Program (QIP) scores and population characteristics were also performed. We observed a negligible correlation between star ratings and the proportion of local individuals below FPL; Spearman coefficient, R = -0.09 (p<0.0001), and a stronger correlation between star ratings and the proportion of black individuals; R = -0.21 (p<0.0001). Ordered logistic regression analyses yielded adjusted odds ratio of 0.91 (95% confidence interval [0.80-1.30], p = 0.12) and 0.55 ([0.48-0.63], p<0.0001) for high vs. low level of proportion below FPL and proportion of black individuals, respectively. In contrast, a near-zero correlation was observed between star ratings and the proportion of Hispanic individuals. Correlations varied substantially by country region, clinic profit status and clinic size. Analyses using clinic QIP scores provided similar results. Sociodemographic characteristics of the surrounding community, factors typically outside of providers' direct control, have varying levels of association with clinic dialysis star ratings. labels: #African Americans#Ambulatory Care Facilities#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Logistic Models#Medicaid#Medicare#Odds Ratio#Poverty Areas#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Renal Dialysis#United States"
b'Dogs (Canis familiaris) are often free-roaming in sub-Saharan African countries. Rabies virus circulates in many of these populations and presents a public health issue. Mass vaccination of dog populations is the recommended method to decrease the number of dog and human rabies cases. We describe and compare four populations of dogs and their vaccination coverage in four different villages (Hluvukani, Athol, Utah and Dixie) in Bushbuckridge Municipality, Mpumalanga province, South Africa. Cross-sectional surveys were conducted in the villages of Athol, Utah and Dixie, while data from a Health and Demographic Surveillance System were used to describe the dog population in Hluvukani village. All households of the villages were visited to obtain information on the number, sex, age and rabies vaccination status of dogs. From May to October 2013, 2969 households were visited in the four villages and 942 owned dogs were reported. The populations were all young and skewed towards males. No differences were observed in the sex and age distributions (puppies 0-3 months excluded) among the villages. Athol had a higher proportion of dog-owning households than Hluvukani and Utah. Vaccination coverages were all above the 20% - 40% threshold required for herd immunity to rabies (38% in Hluvukani, 51% in Athol, 65% in Dixie and 74% in Utah). For the preparation of vaccination campaigns, we recommend the use of the relatively stable dog:human ratio (between 1:12 and 1:16) to estimate the number of dogs per village in Bushbuckridge Municipality. labels: #Animals#Cross-Sectional Studies#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Family Characteristics#Female#Humans#Male#Ownership#Poverty#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines#Rural Population#South Africa#Surveys and Questionnaires#Vaccination'
b'Dry pelleted dog food in the South African market is available via supermarkets, pet stores (standard brands [SBs]) and veterinary channels (premium brands [PBs]). For the purpose of this study, the supermarket channel included the cheaper quality foods and PBs were sold via the veterinary channel (n = 20). These feeds were analysed for four main mycotoxins (aflatoxins [AF], fumonisin [FB], ochratoxin A [OTA] and zearalenone [ZEA]) using standard welldescribed extraction, characterisation and quantitation processes. Irrespective of the brand or marketing channel, all foods were contaminated with fungi (mainly Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus parasiticus) and mycotoxins (most prevalent being aflatoxins and fumonisins). This was observed in all 20 samples irrespective of the marketing channel or perceived quality. Also, many samples within each marketing channel failed the 10 ppb limit for aflatoxin set by regulations in South Africa. Although fumonisin was detected in all samples, a single sample failed the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) limit of 100 ppb. Both OTA and ZEA were found at low concentrations and were absent in some samples. This study suggested that higher priced dog food does not ensure superior quality or that it is free from contamination with fungi or mycotoxins. However, analysis of the more expensive PBs did reveal contamination concentrations lower than those of the SBs. labels: #Animal Feed#Animals#Commerce#Dogs#Food Microbiology#Fungi#Mycotoxins#South Africa'
b'Serology is primarily used in the diagnosis of bovine brucellosis. Bacterial culture and isolation is the gold standard in diagnosing brucellosis but, like serology, it does not offer complete (100%) diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been suggested to offer better specificity and sensitivity. In this study, we evaluated the performance of Brucella abortus species specific (BaSS) PCR directly from different samples in the diagnosis of bovine brucellosis in naturally infected cattle in KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa with known infectious status from culture. The BaSS PCR had a low diagnostic sensitivity (DSe) of 70%, but was able to identify vaccine strains using abomasal fluid from aborted foetuses and detect Brucella DNA from decomposing samples. The best sample for the BaSS PCR was abomasal fluid. labels: #Abomasum#Animals#Brucella abortus#Brucellosis, Bovine#Cattle#Female#Fetus#Milk#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Pregnancy#Sensitivity and Specificity#Vaccination'
b'BACKGROUND: Biologics magnetics nanoparticles, magnetosomes, attract attention because of their magnetic characteristics and potential applications. The aim of the present study was to develop and characterize novel magnetosomes, which were extracted from magnetotactic bacteria, purified to produce apyrogen magnetosome minerals, and then coated with Chitosan, Neridronate, or Polyethyleneimine. It yielded stable magnetosomes designated as M-Chi, M-Neri, and M-PEI, respectively. Nanoparticle biocompatibility was evaluated on mouse fibroblast cells (3T3), mouse glioblastoma cells (GL-261) and rat glioblastoma cells (RG-2). We also tested these nanoparticles for magnetic hyperthermia treatment of tumor in vitro on two tumor cell lines GL-261 and RG-2 under the application of an alternating magnetic field. Heating, efficacy and internalization properties were then evaluated.RESULTS: Nanoparticles coated with chitosan, polyethyleneimine and neridronate are apyrogen, biocompatible and stable in aqueous suspension. The presence of a thin coating in M-Chi and M-PEI favors an arrangement in chains of the magnetosomes, similar to that observed in magnetosomes directly extracted from magnetotactic bacteria, while the thick matrix embedding M-Neri leads to structures with an average thickness of 3.5\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5m2per magnetosome mineral. In the presence of GL-261 cells and upon the application of an alternating magnetic field, M-PEI and M-Chi lead to the highest specific absorption rates of 120-125\xc2\xa0W/gFe. Furthermore, while M-Chi lead to rather low rates of cellular internalization, M-PEI strongly associate to cells, a property modulated by the application of an alternating magnetic field.CONCLUSIONS: Coating of purified magnetosome minerals can therefore be chosen to control the interactions of nanoparticles with cells, organization of the minerals, as well as heating and cytotoxicity properties, which are important parameters to be considered in the design of a magnetic hyperthermia treatment of tumor. labels: #3T3 Cells#Animals#Cell Line, Tumor#Chitosan#Coated Materials, Biocompatible#Diphosphonates#Glioma#Hyperthermia, Induced#Magnetic Fields#Magnetosomes#Magnetospirillum#Mice#Nanoparticles#Polyethyleneimine#Rats'
b'BACKGROUND: In the human retina, the contribution of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) to the regulation of the pupillary response remains poorly understood. The objective of the current study was to determine the response dynamics of the pupillary light reflex to short, successive pulses of light. In order to better assess the roles of ipRGCs and cones, we used pulses of blue and green light.METHODS: Each participant was exposed to 1-ms blue (466\xc2\xa0nm) and/or green (527\xc2\xa0nm) light pulses simultaneously or separately, with inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs) of 0, 250, 500, 750, or 1000\xc2\xa0ms. Pupil diameter was measured using an infrared camera system.RESULTS: We found that human pupillary light responses during simultaneous irradiation or successive irradiation with ISIs \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x89250\xc2\xa0ms were equivalent, though successive irradiation of blue- and green-pulsed light with ISIs \xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x89500\xc2\xa0ms induced markedly increased pupillary constriction.CONCLUSIONS: We propose that this result may be related to cell hyperpolarization that occurs in the retina just after the first light stimulus is turned off, with the threshold for this effect being between 250 and 500\xc2\xa0ms in the human retina. labels: #Adult#Anthropology, Physical#Female#Humans#Light#Photic Stimulation#Reflex, Pupillary#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Melanoma took top position among the lethal cancers and, despite there have been some great attempts made to increase the natural life of patients with metastatic disease, long-lasting and complete remissions are few. Piceatannol, owns the similar function as resveratrol, has been defined as an anti-cancer agent playing important role in inhibition of proliferation, migration and metastasis in various cancer. Thus, we aim to investigate the anti-cancer effect and mechanisms of piceatannol in melanoma cells.METHODS: Melanoma cell lines WM266-4 and A2058 were treated either with or without piceatannol. Cell viability and cell apoptosis were assessed by using MTT and Annexin V/PI assay, respectively. Cells were transfected with specific miRNA using Lipfectamine 2000. miRNA bingding ability to 3'-UTR region within specific gene was assed by firefly luciferase analysis. Gene and protein expression was eveluated by qRT-PCR and western blot analysis, respectively.RESULTS: Our study showed that piceatannol inhibited WM266-4 and A2058 cells growth and induced apoptosis. Totally, 16 differentially expressed miRNAs were screened out including 8 up-regulated and 8 down-regulated miRNAs. Expression level of miR-181a is significantly higher in piceatannol-treated cells than normal control and is lower in melanoma cancer tissues than its adjacent normal tissues. Bcl-2 is a target gene of miR-181a. Moreover, silencing of miR-181a reverses the decrease of cell viability induced by piceatannol in WM266-4 and A2058 cells. Taken together, present study uncovered the ability of piceatannol to repress melanoma cell growth and clarified the contribution of miR-181a in the anticancer role of piceatannol.CONCLUSION: The present study proposes that piceatannol can be taken into account to be a hopeful anticancer agent for melanoma. labels: #Anticarcinogenic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Melanoma#MicroRNAs#Stilbenes#Up-Regulation"
b'Foot ulceration is one of the most common and complex sequelae of diabetes mellitus, generally posing a therapeutic challenge due to poor healing responses and high rates of complications, including peripheral vascular disease, ischemia and infections. Calcitriol, the most active vitamin D metabolite, induces antimicrobial peptides production in keratinocytes from diabetic foot ulcers (DFU); however, little is known about its effects on angiogenic factors in this pathology. Herein we aimed at studying whether calcitriol induces angiogenic molecules in keratinocytes under normoxic and hypoxic conditions, and if these molecules are able to improve cell migration in vitro. Evaluation of DFU samples by immunohistochemistry showed increased VEGF and decreased angiogenin and HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression compared to controls, suggesting an altered pattern of angiogenic factors in DFU. Interestingly, incubation of keratinocytes with calcitriol significantly upregulated VEGFA, HIF-1\xce\xb1 and angiogenin gene expression, while the resulting cell culture media stimulated both endothelial cells and keratinocytes migration in an in vitro wound closure assay under a normoxic environment (p<0.05). Moreover, the culture media of calcitriol-treated keratinocytes stimulated cell migration in a similar extent as exogenous VEGF or EGF in endothelial and keratinocytes cells. These results suggest that the altered profile of angiogenic molecules in DFU might be improved by local or systemic treatment with calcitriol under normoxic conditions, which could probably be achieved with hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Given that calcitriol not only augments proangiogenic factors but also induces antimicrobial peptides expression, this hormone should be further investigated in clinical trials of DFU. labels: #Adult#Calcitriol#Cell Line#Diabetic Foot#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Keratinocytes#Male#Middle Aged#Neovascularization, Physiologic#Ribonuclease, Pancreatic#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vitamins#Wound Healing#Young Adult'
b'Increasing evidences have revealed the important role of circular RNAs (circRNAs) in cardiovascular system disease. Whereas, the expression profiles and in-depth regulation of circRNAs on vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is still undetermined. In present study, our research team performed circRNAs microarray analysis to present the circRNAs expression profiles in high glucose induced VSMCs in vitro. Results showed that total of 983 circRNAs were discovered to be differentially expressed, and of these, 458 were upregulated and 525 were downregulated. Moreover, 31 circRNAs were up-regulated and 22 circRNAs were down-regulated with 2 fold change (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05). One of an up-regulated circRNA, circWDR77, was identified. In vitro cell assay, circWDR77 silencing significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration. Bioinformatics methods discovered that miR-124 and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) were downstream targets of circWDR77. The RNA sequence complementary binding was validated by RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and/or luciferase reporter assay. Further function validation experiments revealed that circWDR77 regulated VSMCs proliferation and migration via targeting miR-124/FGF2. Taken together, present study firstly reveals the circRNAs expression profiles in high glucose induced VSMCs and identifies the role of circWDR77-miR-124-FGF2 regulatory pathway in VSMCs proliferation and migration, which might provide a new theoretical basis for diabetes mellitus correlated vasculopathy. labels: #Base Sequence#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Fibroblast Growth Factor 2#HEK293 Cells#Humans#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Smooth, Vascular#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis#RNA#Transcription Factors#Transcriptome'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine the safety of direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) use compared with warfarin use for the treatment of venous thromboembolism.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective matched cohort study conducted between 1 January 2009 and 31 March 2016.Setting\xc2\xa0Community based, using healthcare data from six jurisdictions in Canada and the United States.Participants\xc2\xa059\xe2\x80\x89525 adults (12\xe2\x80\x89489 DOAC users; 47\xe2\x80\x89036 warfarin users) with a new diagnosis of venous thromboembolism and a prescription for a DOAC or warfarin within 30 days of diagnosis.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0Outcomes included hospital admission or emergency department visit for major bleeding and all cause mortality within 90 days after starting treatment. Propensity score matching and shared frailty models were used to estimate adjusted hazard ratios of the outcomes comparing DOACs with warfarin. Analyses were conducted independently at each site, with meta-analytical methods used to estimate pooled hazard ratios across sites.Results\xc2\xa0Of the 59\xe2\x80\x89525 participants, 1967 (3.3%) had a major bleed and 1029 (1.7%) died over a mean follow-up of 85.2 days. The risk of major bleeding was similar for DOAC compared with warfarin use (pooled hazard ratio 0.92, 95% confidence interval 0.82 to 1.03), with the overall direction of the association favouring DOAC use. No difference was found in the risk of death (pooled hazard ratio 0.99, 0.84 to 1.16) for DOACs compared with warfarin use. There was no evidence of heterogeneity across centres, between patients with and without chronic kidney disease, across age groups, or between male and female patients.Conclusions\xc2\xa0In this analysis of adults with incident venous thromboembolism, treatment with DOACs, compared with warfarin, was not associated with an increased risk of major bleeding or all cause mortality in the first 90 days of treatment.Trial registration\xc2\xa0Clinical trials NCT02833987. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anticoagulants#Canada#Factor Xa Inhibitors#Female#Hemorrhage#Humans#Male#Medication Therapy Management#Middle Aged#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Readmission#Risk Assessment#Rivaroxaban#United States#Venous Thromboembolism#Warfarin'
b'Healthy expansion of adipose tissue maintains metabolic homeostasis by storing excess chemical energy in increased fat mass. The STAT5-PPAR gamma pathway reportedly regulates adipocyte differentiation, lipid metabolism and adipogenesis. Ginsenoside Rg3 is one of the diverse groups of steroidal saponins, the major active components of ginseng, which have demonstrated pharmacological properties. In this study, we evaluated the therapeutic effects of ginsenoside Rg3 under pathological conditionsin vitroandin vivoWe examined the effects of ginsenoside Rg3 on glucose level, insulin sensitivity and lipogenesis in high-fat diet-fed C57BL/6 mice. Ginsenoside Rg3 was also applied to the pre-adipocyte cell line 3T3-L1 to assess the impact on lipogenesis. Ginsenoside Rg3 reduced epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) size and hepatic steatosis, and the amount of triglycerides (TGs) in both eWAT and liver. Similar to the murine model, Rg3-treated 3T3-L1 cells showed a reduction in lipid accumulation and amount of total TGs. Ginsenoside Rg3 regulates the expression of PPAR gamma though STAT5in vitroandin vivoAccording to our results, lipid metabolism-related genes were downregulated in the high-fat mice and 3T3-L1 cell line. Rg3 shows potential for the amelioration of obesity-induced pathology, acting though STAT5-PPAR gamma to facilitate the healthy functioning of adipose tissue. This is the first report of evidence that obesity-induced insulin resistance and lipotoxicity can be treated with ginsenoside Rg3, which acts though the STAT5-PPAR gamma pathwayin vivoandin vitro. labels: #3T3-L1 Cells#Adipocytes#Adipogenesis#Adipose Tissue, White#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Blood Glucose#Blotting, Western#Diet, High-Fat#Down-Regulation#Epididymis#Fatty Liver#Gene Expression Regulation#Ginsenosides#Insulin Resistance#Lipogenesis#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Obesity#PPAR gamma#RNA Interference#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#STAT5 Transcription Factor#Triglycerides'
b'BACKGROUND: Ischemic mitral regurgitation (MR) is classically ascribed to functional restriction of normal leaflets, but recent studies have suggested post-myocardial infarction (MI) mitral valve (MV) leaflet fibrosis and thickening, challenging valve normality. Progression of leaflet thickness post-MI has not been studied. We hypothesized that excessive MV remodeling post-MI contributes to MR. Our objectives are to characterize MV changes after MI and relate them to MR.METHODS AND RESULTS: Three groups of 40 patients with serial echocardiograms over a mean of 23.4 months were identified from an echocardiography database: patients first studied early (6\xc2\xb112 days) and late (12\xc2\xb17 years) after an inferior MI and normal controls. MV thickness was correlated with MR. We studied the mechanisms for MV changes in a sheep model (6 apical MI versus 6 controls) followed for 8 weeks, with MV cellular and histopathologic analyses. Early post-MI, leaflet thickness was found to be similar to controls (2.6\xc2\xb10.5 vs 2.5\xc2\xb10.4 mm;P=0.23) but significantly increased over time (2.5\xc2\xb10.4 to 2.9\xc2\xb10.4 mm;P<0.01). In this group, patients tolerating maximal doses of renin-angiotensin blocking agents had less thickening (25% of patients;P<0.01). The late-MI group had increased thickness (3.2\xc2\xb10.5 vs 2.5\xc2\xb10.4 mm;P<0.01) without progression. At follow-up, 48% of post-MI patients had more than mild MR. Increased thickness was independently associated with MR. Experimentally, 8 weeks post-MI, MVs were 2-fold thicker than controls, with increased collagen, profibrotic transforming growth factor-\xce\xb2, and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transformation, confirmed by flow cytometry.CONCLUSIONS: MV thickness increases post-MI and correlates with MR, suggesting an organic component to ischemic MR. MV fibrotic remodeling can indicate directions for future therapy. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Biopsy#Collagen#Disease Models, Animal#Echocardiography, Doppler, Color#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Female#Fibrosis#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mitral Valve#Mitral Valve Insufficiency#Myocardial Infarction#Retrospective Studies#Sheep, Domestic#Time Factors#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b"A 3-month-old boy was admitted from his pediatrician's office for failure to thrive and vomiting. On admission, he weighed barely more than his birth weight and was cachectic with muscle wasting. His abdomen was grossly distended but soft and nontender. A trial of nasogastric feeds resulted in a worsening of his clinical status. He was transferred to the ICU, and diagnostic imaging was concerning for a distal bowel obstruction. Surgical pathology revealed a surprising diagnosis, which is described in detail in the following case. labels: #Appendicitis#Failure to Thrive#Humans#Infant#Intestinal Obstruction#Male#Vomiting"
b'A previously healthy 3-week-old boy presented with 5 hours of marked fussiness, abdominal distention, and poor feeding. He was afebrile and well perfused. His examination was remarkable for localized abdominal tenderness and distention. He was referred to the emergency department in which an abdominal radiograph revealed gaseous distention of the bowel with a paucity of gas in the pelvis. Complete blood cell count and urinalysis were unremarkable. His ongoing fussiness and abnormal physical examination prompted consultation with surgery and radiology. Our combined efforts ultimately established an unexpected diagnosis. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Acute Disease#Appendicitis#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male'
b'Neurog2 is a crucial regulator of neuronal fate specification and differentiationin vivoandin vitroHowever, it remains unclear how Neurog2 transactivates neuronal genes that are silenced by repressive chromatin. Here, we provide evidence that the histone H3 lysine 9 demethylase KDM3A facilitates theXenopusNeurog2 (formerly known as Xngnr1) chromatin accessibility during neuronal transcription. Loss-of-function analyses reveal that KDM3A is not required for the transition of naive ectoderm to neural progenitor cells but is essential for primary neuron formation. ChIP series followed by qPCR analyses reveal that Neurog2 promotes the removal of the repressive H3K9me2 marks and addition of active histone marks, including H3K27ac and H3K4me3, at the NeuroD1 and Tubb2b promoters; this activity depends on the presence of KDM3A because Neurog2, via its C-terminal domain, interacts with KDM3A. Interestingly, KDM3A is dispensable for the neuronal transcription initiated by Ascl1, a proneural factor related to neurogenin in the bHLH family. In summary, our findings uncover a crucial role for histone H3K9 demethylation during Neurog2-mediated neuronal transcription and help in the understanding of the different activities of Neurog2 and Ascl1 in initiating neuronal development. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Chromatin#Ectoderm#Female#Histones#Jumonji Domain-Containing Histone Demethylases#Lysine#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Transcriptional Activation#Xenopus Proteins#Xenopus laevis'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) in patients with cerebral small-vessel disease.METHODS: Thirty patients with cerebral small-vessel disease-related mild cognitive impairment were enrolled in this prospective, randomized controlled study for 1 year. Besides routine medical treatment, participants were randomized into the experimental group (n=14) undergoing 5 cycles consisting of ischemia followed by reperfusion for 5 minutes on both upper limbs twice daily for 1 year or the control group (n=16) who were treated with sham ischemia-reperfusion cycles. The primary outcome was the change of brain lesions, and secondary outcomes were changes of cognitive function, plasma biomarkers, and cerebral hemodynamic parameters both at baseline and at the end of 1-year follow-up.RESULTS: Compared with pretreatment, the post-treatment white matter hyperintensities volume in the RIC group was significantly reduced (9.10\xc2\xb17.42 versus 6.46\xc2\xb16.05 cm3;P=0.020), whereas no significant difference was observed in the sham-RIC group (8.99\xc2\xb16.81 versus 8.07\xc2\xb16.56 cm3;P=0.085). The reduction of white matter hyperintensities volume in the RIC group was more substantial than that in sham group (-2.632 versus -0.935 cm3;P=0.049). No significant difference was found in the change of the number of lacunes between 2 groups (0 versus 0;P=0.694). A significant treatment difference at 1 year on visuospatial and executive ability was found between the 2 groups (0.639 versus 0.191;P=0.048). RIC showed greater effects compared with sham-RIC on plasma triglyceride (-0.433 versus 0.236 mmol/L;P=0.005), total cholesterol (-0.975 versus 0.134 mmol/L;P<0.001), low-density lipoprotein (-0.645 versus -0.029 mmol/L;P=0.034), and homocysteine (-4.737 versus -1.679 \xc2\xb5mol/L;P=0.044). Changes of the pulsation indices of middle cerebral arteries from the baseline to 1 year were different between the 2 groups (right: -0.075 versus 0.043;P=0.030; left: -0.085 versus 0.043;P=0.010).CONCLUSIONS: RIC seems to be potentially effective in patients with cerebral small-vessel disease in slowing cognition decline and reducing white matter hyperintensities.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01658306. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cerebrovascular Circulation#Cerebrovascular Disorders#Cognitive Dysfunction#Double-Blind Method#Female#Hemodynamics#Humans#Ischemic Preconditioning#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Assessment of cognitive status poststroke is recommended by guidelines but follow-up can often not be done in person. The Telephone Interview of Cognitive Status (TICS) and the Telephone Montreal Cognitive Assessment (T-MoCA) are considered useful screening instruments. Yet, evidence to define optimal cut-offs for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) after stroke is limited.METHODS: We studied 105 patients enrolled in the prospective DEDEMAS study (Determinants of Dementia After Stroke; NCT01334749). Follow-up visits at 6, 12, 36, and 60 months included comprehensive neuropsychological testing and the Clinical Dementia Rating scale, both of which served as reference standards. The original TICS and T-MoCA were obtained in 2 separate telephone interviews each separated from the personal visits by 1 week (1 before and 1 after the visit) with the order of interviews (TICS versus T-MoCA) alternating between subjects. Area under the receiver-operating characteristic curves was determined.RESULTS: Ninety-six patients completed both the face-to-face visits and the 2 interviews. Area under the receiver-operating characteristic curves ranged between 0.76 and 0.83 for TICS and between 0.73 and 0.94 for T-MoCA depending on MCI definition. For multidomain MCI defined by multiple-tests definition derived from comprehensive neuropsychological testing optimal sensitivities and specificities were achieved at cut-offs<36 (TICS) and<18 (T-MoCA). Validity was lower using single-test definition, and cut-offs were higher compared with multiple-test definitions. Using Clinical Dementia Rating as the reference, optimal cut-offs for MCI were<36 (TICS) and approximately 19 (T-MoCA).CONCLUSIONS: Both the TICS and T-MoCA are valid screening tools poststroke, particularly for multidomain MCI using multiple-test definition. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cognition#Cognitive Dysfunction#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Stroke'
b"The prevalence of autoimmune disorders in affluent countries has reached epidemic proportions. Over the past 50 years, a reverse trend between the frequency of infectious diseases and the incidence of autoimmune and allergic diseases led to the so-called 'hygiene hypothesis'. Given the epidemiological evidence and recent experimental data, we propose that this concept should also include metabolic pressure secondary to exposure to excessive daily caloric intake and overnutrition. We discuss how metabolic workload can modulate immunological tolerance and review the molecular mechanisms and the state of the art of the field. We also critically evaluate possibilities for restoring immunological homeostasis under conditions of metabolic pressure. labels: #Animals#Autoimmune Diseases#Homeostasis#Humans#Hygiene Hypothesis#Metabolic Networks and Pathways#Models, Immunological#Nutritional Physiological Phenomena#Self Tolerance"
b'The blood-brain barrier becomes "leaky" following lesions. Former studies revealed that following lesions the immunoreactivity of cerebrovascular laminin becomes detectable whereas that of \xce\xb2-dystroglycan disappears. These alterations may be indicators of glio-vascular decoupling that may result in the impairment of the blood-brain-barrier. This study investigates correlation between the post-lesion extravasation and the above-mentioned immunohistochemical alterations. Following cryogenic lesions, the survival periods lasted 5, 10, 30\xe2\x80\x89minutes, 1 or 12\xe2\x80\x89hours, or 1\xe2\x80\x89day. Some brains were fixed immediately post-lesion. Immunofluorescent reactions were performed in floating sections. The extravasation was detected with immunostaining for plasma fibronectin and rat immunoglobulins. When the survival period was 30\xe2\x80\x89minutes or longer, the area of extravasation corresponded to the area of altered laminin and \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivities. Following immediate fixation some laminin immunoreactivity was already detected. The extravasation seemed to precede this early appearance of laminin immunoreactivity. The \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivity disappeared later. When the extravasation spread into the corpus callosum, vascular laminin immunoreactivity appeared but the \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivity persisted. It seems that extravasation separates the glial and vascular basal laminae, which results in the appearance of laminin immunoreactivity. The disappearance of \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivity is neither a condition nor an inevitable consequence of the 2 other phenomena. labels: #Animals#Blood-Brain Barrier#Cerebrovascular Circulation#Dystroglycans#Extravasation of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Materials#Female#Freezing#Laminin#Male#Parietal Lobe#Rats#Rats, Wistar'
b'Heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in GRN, the progranulin gene, which result in progranulin (PGRN) protein haploinsufficiency, are a major cause of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 proteinopathy (FTLD-TDP). PGRN is composed of seven and a half repeats of a highly conserved granulin motif that is cleaved to produce the granulin peptides A-G and paragranulin. To better understand the role of PGRN and granulin (Grn) peptides in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration, we evaluated PGRN/Grn in brains of patients with Alzheimer disease, FTLD-TDP type A with or without GRN mutations, and normal individuals, using a panel of monoclonal antibodies against Grn peptides A-G. In the neocortex, Grn peptide-specific immunostains were observed, for example, membranous Grn E immunopositivity in pyramidal neurons, and Grn C immunopositivity in ramified microglia. In the hippocampus, Grn immunopositivity in the CA1 and CA2 regions showed disease-specific changes in both neurons and microglia. Most interestingly, in FTLD-TDP type A with GRN mutations, there is a 60% decrease in the density of Grn-positive microglia in the hippocampal CA1, suggesting that haploinsufficiency of the GRN mutations also extends to PGRN expression in microglia. This study provides important insights into future studies of the pathogenesis and treatment of FTLD-TDP. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alzheimer Disease#Brain#Brain Chemistry#Female#Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration#Hippocampus#Humans#Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Male#Microglia#Middle Aged#Neocortex#Neurons'
b'It has been proposed that susceptibility-weighted imaging is a sensitive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique for identifying white matter (WM) pathologic changes involving demyelination and iron accumulation. We identified the tree silhouette-like configuration with a paramagnetic phase shift in the frontal subcortical WM lesions of 4 patients with adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia who underwent 3T MRI. According to our postmortem 7T MRI and histologic correlation study to investigate the origin of the susceptibility-related phase contrast, changes in the subcortical WM architecture and central WM loss with the relative preservation of iron-rich U-fibers may contribute to the paramagnetic susceptibility. labels: #Axons#Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy#Female#Humans#Leukoencephalopathies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroglia#Pigmentation#Spheroids, Cellular#White Matter'
b'Dorsal root ganglia, dorsal roots (DR), and dorsal root entry zones (DREZ) are vulnerable to frataxin deficiency in Friedreich ataxia (FA). A previously unrecognized abnormality is the intrusion of astroglial tissue into DR. Segments of formalin-fixed upper lumbar spinal cord of 13 homozygous and 2 compound heterozygous FA patients were sectioned longitudinally to represent DREZ and stained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S100, vimentin, the central nervous system (CNS)-specific myelin protein proteolipid protein, the peripheral nervous system (PNS) myelin proteins PMP-22 and P0, and the Schwann cell proteins laminin, alpha-dystroglycan, and periaxin. Normal DREZ showed short, sharply demarcated, dome-like extensions of CNS tissue into DR. The Schwann cell-related proteins formed tight caps around these domes. In FA, GFAP-, S100-, and vimentin-reactive CNS tissue extended across DREZ and into DR over much longer distances by breaching the CNS-PNS barrier. The transition between PNS and CNS myelin proteins was disorganized. During development, neural-crest derived boundary cap cells provide guidance to dorsal root ganglia axons growing into the dorsal spinal cord and at the same time block the inappropriate intrusion of CNS glia into DR. It is likely that frataxin is required during a critical period of permissive (axons) and nonpermissive (astroglia) border-control. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Female#Friedreich Ataxia#Ganglia, Spinal#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Spinal Cord#Spinal Nerve Roots#Young Adult'
b'Primary central nervous system (CNS) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a subtype of DLBCL with an unfavorable prognosis and a poor response to the treatment. As we know, DLBCL is stratified into germinal center B-cell (GCB)-like and activated B-cell (ABC)-like subtypes with different prognosis according to their gene-expression characteristics. In this study, we analyzed a case series of 77 patients with primary CNS DLBCL. A difference in prognosis of GCB-like and ABC-like subtypes was noticed, but no statistical significance was found. However, significant prognostic value of MYC/BCL2 co-expression was shown. The cases with MYC/BCL2 co-expression did not show any predominance of the 2 subtypes in our cases. Furthermore, patients with MYC/BCL2 co-expression had significantly worse overall survival for both cell of origin (COO) subtypes. We conjecture that MYC/BCL2 co-expression is associated with a poorer prognosis and is independent of COO classification. Moreover, the data suggest that MYC/BCL2 co-expression is superior to COO classification assessed by immunohistochemical analysis in patients with primary CNS DLBCL. labels: #Aged#B-Lymphocytes#Central Nervous System Neoplasms#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc#Retrospective Studies'
b'BACKGROUND: Nail-bed injuries are the most common hand injury in children. Surgical dogma is to replace the nail plate after repairing the nail bed. Recent evidence suggests this might increase infection rates and returns to clinic. The aim of this feasibility trial was to inform the design and conduct of a definitive trial comparing replacing or discarding the nail plate after nail-bed repair.METHODS: This study recruited participants from four hand units in the UK between April and July 2015. Participants were children under the age of 16 years with a nail-bed injury requiring surgery. They were randomized to either having the nail plate replaced or discarded after nail-bed repair. The follow-up method was also allocated randomly (postal versus clinic). Information was collected on complications at 2 weeks and 30 days, and on nail-plate appearance at 4 months using the Zook classification. Two possible approaches to follow-up were also piloted and compared.RESULTS: During the recruitment phase, there were 156 potentially eligible children. Sixty were randomized in just over 3 months using remote web-based allocation. By 2 weeks, there were two infections, both in children with replaced nail plates. The nail-replaced group also experienced more complications. There was no evidence of a difference in return rates between postal and clinic follow-up.CONCLUSION: Recruitment was rapid and nail-bed repair appeared to have low complication and infection rates in this pilot trial. The findings have led to revision of the definitive trial protocol, including the mode and timing of follow-up, and modification of the Zook classification. labels: #Adolescent#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Feasibility Studies#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Nails#Pain#Pilot Projects#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgical Wound Infection'
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to elucidate the clinical features and prognostic factors of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma (MCS) and investigate optimal treatment strategies.METHODS: Data from 57 patients with MCS were collected from a Japanese Musculoskeletal Oncology Group (JMOG) and retrospectively analyzed.RESULTS: Data from 29 males and 28 females were collected. Primary tumor sites were the head and neck (7 patients), trunk (35 patients), and extremities (15 patients). The tumors originating in the trunk were significantly associated with a worse OS compared with those originating at the other sites in all patients and those with localized disease (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.020 and P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.019, respectively). In patients with localized disease, the tumors originating in the head and neck were significantly associated with better OS and MFS compared with those originating in the trunk (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.024 and P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.014, respectively). Positive surgical margin was significantly correlated with the worse LRFS (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.018). Adjuvant chemotherapy exhibited a clear trend toward improved OS when MCS was localized in the trunk or extremities (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.057).CONCLUSIONS: Adequate surgery is considered to be the mainstay of treatment for localized MCS. Prognosis was different depending on the site of tumor origin. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Child#Chondrosarcoma, Mesenchymal#Female#Humans#Japan#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Surveys and Questionnaires#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVE: Fetal exposure to maternal anti-SSA/Ro antibodies is necessary but not sufficient for the development of autoimmune congenital heart block (CHB), suggesting that other factors, such as fetal genetic predisposition, are important. Given the previously described association between major histocompatibility complex alleles and CHB risk, we undertook the present study to test the hypothesis that a variant form of HLA-C Asn80Lys, which binds with high affinity to an inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) and thus renders natural killer (NK) cells incapable of restricting inflammation, contributes to the development of CHB.METHODS: Members of 192 pedigrees in the US and Europe (194 cases of CHB, 91 unaffected siblings, 152 fathers, 167 mothers) and 1,073 out-of-study controls were genotyped on the Immunochip single-nucleotide polymorphism microarray. Imputation was used to identify associations at HLA-C Asn80Lys (Asn, C1; Lys, C2) and KIR. Tests for association were performed using logistic regression. McNemar's test and the pedigree disequilibrium test (PDT) were used for matched analyses between affected and unaffected children.RESULTS: Compared with out-of-study controls of the same sex, the C2 allele was less frequent in the mothers (odds ratio [OR] 0.63, P = 0.0014) and more frequent in the fathers (OR 1.40, P = 0.0123), yielding a significant sex-by-C2 interaction (P = 0.0002). The C2 allele was more frequent in affected siblings than in unaffected siblings (OR 3.67, P = 0.0025), which was consistent with the PDT results (P = 0.016); these results were observed in both sexes and across the US and European cohorts. There was no difference in the frequency of the inhibitory KIR genotype (KIR AA) between affected and unaffected children (P = 0.55).CONCLUSION: These data establish C2 as a novel genetic risk factor associated with CHB. This observation supports a model in which fetuses with C2 ligand expression and maternal anti-SSA/Ro positivity may have impaired NK cell surveillance, resulting in unchecked cardiac inflammation and scarring. labels: #Antibodies, Antinuclear#Case-Control Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Europe#Fathers#Female#Genotype#HLA-C Antigens#Heart Block#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Logistic Models#Male#Mothers#Odds Ratio#Pedigree#Polymorphism, Genetic#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Sex Factors#Siblings#United States"
b'Antimicrobial peptides are important components of the host innate defense mechanism against invading pathogens, especially for drug-resistant bacteria. In addition to bactericidal activity, the 25 residue peptide TP4 isolated from Nile tilapia also stimulates cell proliferation and regulates the innate immune system in mice. In this report, TP4 hyperpolarized and depolarized the membrane potential of Pseudomonas aeruginosa at sub-lethal and lethal concentrations. It also inhibited and eradicated biofilm formation. The in vitro binding of TP4 to bacterial outer membrane target protein, OprI, was markedly enhanced by a membrane-like surfactant sarkosyl and lipopolysaccharide, which converted TP4 into an \xce\xb1-helix. The solution structure of TP4 in dodecylphosphocholine was solved by NMR analyses. It contained a typical \xce\xb1-helix at residues Phe10-Arg22 and a distorted helical segment at Ile6-Phe10, as well as a hydrophobic core at the N-terminus and a cationic patch at the C-terminus. Residues Ile16, Leu19 and Ile20 in the hydrophobic face of the main helix were critical for the integrity of amphipathic structure, other hydrophobic residues played important roles in hemolytic and bactericidal activities. A model for the assembly of helical TP4 embedded in sarkosyl vesicle is proposed. This study may provide valuable insight for engineering AMPs to have potent bactericidal activity but low hemolytic activity. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Antimicrobial Cationic Peptides#Bacterial Proteins#Biofilms#Candida albicans#Cell Membrane Permeability#Cichlids#Erythrocytes#Fish Proteins#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Lipopolysaccharides#Lipoproteins#Listeria monocytogenes#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Models, Molecular#Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular#Phosphorylcholine#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation, alpha-Helical#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#Sarcosine'
b'Climate networks are powerful approaches to disclose tele-connections in climate systems and to predict severe climate events. Here we construct regional climate networks from precipitation data in the Amazonian region and focus on network properties under the recent drought events in 2005 and 2010. Both the networks of the entire Amazon region and the extreme networks resulted from locations severely affected by drought events suggest that network characteristics show slight difference between the two drought events. Based on network degrees of extreme drought events and that without drought conditions, we identify regions of interest that are correlated to longer expected drought period length. Moreover, we show that the spatial correlation length to the regions of interest decayed much faster in 2010 than in 2005, which is because of the dual roles played by both the Pacific and Atlantic oceans. The results suggest that hub nodes in the regional climate network of Amazonia have fewer long-range connections when more severe drought conditions appeared in 2010 than that in 2005. labels: #Atlantic Ocean#Climate#Droughts#Models, Theoretical#Pacific Ocean#Rain#Seasons#Temperature'
b'BACKGROUND: There is evidence that NK-cell reactivity might affect graft outcome in transplant recipients and pregnancy in women.METHOD: NK-cell subsets were determined in whole blood using eight-colour-fluorescence flow cytometry in patients before and after renal transplantation, patients with recurrent miscarriage (RM) and healthy controls (HC).RESULTS: Patients late post-transplant (late-Tx) with functioning renal transplants showed abnormally low CD56dimCD16+ NK-cells containing both perforin and granzyme (vs HC p = 0.021) whereas RM patients exhibited abnormally high numbers of these cells (vs HC p = 0.043). CD56dimCD16+perforin+granzyme+ NK-cell counts were strikingly different between the two patient groups (p<0.001). In addition, recipients late-Tx showed abnormally low CD8+ NK-cells (vs HC p<0.001) in contrast to RM patients who showed an abnormal increase (vs HC p = 0.008). CD8+ NK-cell counts were strongly different between the two patient groups (p<0.001). Higher perforin+granzyme+CD56dimCD16+ and CD8+ NK-cells were associated with impaired graft function (p = 0.044, p = 0.032). After in-vitro stimulation, CD56dimCD16+ and CD56brightCD16dim/- NK-cells showed strong upregulation of CD107a and IFNy, whereas the content of perforin decreased dramatically as a consequence of perforin release. Recipients late post-Tx showed less in-vitro perforin release (= less cytotoxicity) than HC (p = 0.037) and lower perforin release was associated with good graft function (r = 0.738, p = 0.037). Notably, we observed strong in-vitro perforin release in 2 of 6 investigated RM patients. When circulating IL10+CD56bright NK-cells were analyzed, female recipients late post-Tx (n = 9) showed significantly higher relative and absolute cell numbers than RM patients (p = 0.002 and p = 0.018, respectively); and high relative and absolute IL10+CD56bright NK-cell numbers in transplant recipients were associated with low serum creatinine (p = 0.004 and p = 0.012) and high glomerular filtration rate (p = 0.011 and p = 0.002, respectively). Female recipients late post-Tx exhibited similar absolute but higher relative numbers of IL10+IFNy- NK-cells than RM patients (p>0.05 and p = 0.016, respectively).CONCLUSION: NK-cells with lower cytotoxicity and immunoregulatory function might contribute to good long-term graft outcome, whereas circulating NK-cells with normal or even increased cytotoxicity and less immunoregulatory capacity are observed in patients with RM. labels: #Abortion, Habitual#Adult#Aged#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Female#Flow Cytometry#Glomerular Filtration Rate#Granzymes#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Transplantation#Killer Cells, Natural#Male#Middle Aged#Perforin#Pregnancy#Transplant Recipients'
b'AIM: To compare capecitabine and oxaliplatin (XELOX) with S-1 as adjuvant chemotherapy in stage III gastric cancer after D2 gastrectomy.METHODS: Clinical data from 206 patients who received XELOX or S-1 regimens as adjuvant chemotherapy in stage III gastric cancer were collected. Patients were divided into 2 groups according to regimen; the groups were XELOX (n = 114) and S-1 monotherapy (n = 92).RESULTS: 3-year disease-free survival (DFS) was higher in the S-1 group than in the XELOX group (66.6% vs 59.1%; p = 0.636). 3-year overall survival (OS) was 75.6% in the S-1 group and 69.6% in the XELOX group (p = 0.495). But, the difference was not statistically significant. Especially, for patients with stage IIIC disease, 3-year overall survival was 55.2% in the XELOX group and 39.0% in the S-1 group (hazard ratio, HR 0.50, 95% confidence interval, CI 0.23-1.10; p = 0.075). In multivariate analysis, N stage (HR, 5.639; 95% CI, 1.297-24.522; p = 0.021) and cycle completion as planned (HR, 5.734; 95% CI, 3.007-10.936; p<0.001) were independent predictors of overall survival.CONCLUSION: Adjuvant XELOX and S-1 regimen did not prove anything superior for stage III gastric cancer in this study. But, XELOX had a tendency to be superior to S-1 in stage IIIC gastric cancer after D2 gastrectomy although the difference was not statistically significant. N stage and cycle completion as planned were prognostic factors. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Capecitabine#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Combinations#Drug-Related Side Effects and Adverse Reactions#Female#Gastrectomy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Organoplatinum Compounds#Oxonic Acid#Stomach Neoplasms#Tegafur#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Trunk axial rotation is a risk factor for chronic low back pain (CLBP). The characteristics of rotational mobility in the pelvis and spine among CLBP patients are not fully understood.PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine three-dimensional kinematic changes, and to compare the differences of rotational mobility and coupled motion, in patients with and without CLBP.METHODS: Fifteen patients with CLBP and 15 age and sex matched healthy subjects participated in this study. Each subject performed trunk rotation to maximum range of motion (ROM) in a standing position. The kinematics data was collected using a three-dimensional motion analysis system. The outcomes measured were the rotational ROM and the spine/pelvis ratio (SPR) in transvers plane at both maximum and 50% rotation position. The coupled angles in sagittal and frontal planes were also measured.RESULTS: No significant differences in rotational ROM of the thorax, pelvis, and spine were observed between two groups at maximum rotation position. However, there was a significant interaction between groups and rotational ROM of pelvis and spine (F = 4.57, p = 0.04), and the SPR in CLBP patients was significantly greater than that of the healthy subjects (CLBP; 0.50 \xc2\xb1 0.10 Control; 0.41 \xc2\xb1 0.12, p = 0.04). The results at 50% rotation position were similar to that at maximum rotation. This indicates a relative increase in spinal rotation in the CLBP patients during trunk rotation. Moreover, the CLBP patients exhibited a significantly higher anterior tilt of the pelvis and extension of the spine in the sagittal plane coupled with rotation.CONCLUSIONS: CLBP patients had relative hyper rotational mobility of the spine as well as excessive spinal extension coupled with trunk rotation. These results suggest that uncoordinated trunk rotation might be a functional failure associated with CLBP. labels: #Adult#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Pelvis#Posture#Range of Motion, Articular#Rotation#Spine#Stress, Mechanical#Torso'
b'INTRODUCTION: Nodular hyperplasia of parathyroid glands (PG) is the most probable cause of medical treatment failure in secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT). This prospective cohort study is located at the interface of medical and surgical consideration of sHPT treatment options and identifies risk-factors for nodular hyperplasia of PG.MATERIAL AND METHODS: One-hundred-eight resected PG of 27 patients with a broad spectrum of sHPT severity were classified according to the degree of hyperplasia by histopathology. Twenty routinely gathered parameters from medical history, ultrasound findings of PG and laboratory results were analyzed for their influence on nodular hyperplasia of PG by risk-adjusted multivariable binary regression. A prognostic model for non-invasive assessment of PG was developed and used to weight the individual impact of identified risk-factors on the probability of nodular hyperplasia of single PG.RESULTS: Independent risk-factors for nodular hyperplasia of single PG were duration of dialysis in years, PG volume in mm3 determined by ultrasound and serum level of parathyroid hormone in pg/mL. Multivariable analyses computed a model with an Area Under the Receiver Operative Curve of 0.857 (95%-CI:0.773-0.941) when predicting nodular hyperplasia of PG. Theoretical assessment of risk-factor interaction revealed that the duration of dialysis had the strongest influence on the probability of nodular hyperplasia of single PG.CONCLUSIONS: The three identified risk-factors (duration of dialysis, PG volume determined by ultrasound and serum level of parathyroid hormone) can be easily gathered in daily routine and could be used to non-invasively assess the probability of nodular hyperplasia of PG. This assessment would benefit from periodically collected data sets of PG changes during the course of sHPT, so that the choice of medical or surgical sHPT treatment could be adjusted more to the naturally changing type of histological PG lesion on an individually adopted basis in the future. labels: #Adult#Aged#Biomarkers#Female#Humans#Hyperparathyroidism, Secondary#Hyperplasia#Middle Aged#Organ Size#Parathyroid Glands#Parathyroid Hormone#Parathyroidectomy#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#ROC Curve#Renal Dialysis#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Ultrasonography, Doppler'
b'BACKGROUND: Total daily energy expenditure (TEE) is composed of resting metabolic rate (RMR), post-prandial thermogenesis and activity energy expenditure (AEE). Higher AEE is strongly associated with lower mortality and physical limitations among older adults, but factors that predict changes in AEE in septu and octogenarians are not clearly understood.OBJECTIVE: To identify factors associated with late-life longitudinal change in AEE.DESIGN: Energy expenditure was re-assessed in 83 participants (average age at baseline, 74.4\xc2\xb13.2 years)-an average of 7.5\xc2\xb10.54 years since the baseline measure. RMR was measured using indirect calorimetry and the thermic effect of meals was estimated at 10% of TEE. AEE was calculated as: TEE(0.9)-RMR. Participants were categorized into two groups according to the estimated day-to-day precision of the doubly-labeled water technique. Those who were within 10% or increased relative to their initial AEE measurement were categorized as having preserved AEE. Participants who declined greater than 10% of their initial measurement were categorized as having reduced AEE. A variety of socio-demographic, functional and mental factors, body composition, community and personal behaviors, blood measurements and health conditions were evaluated between groups at baseline and changes during follow-up.RESULTS: Daily AEE declined 106.61\xc2\xb1293.25 kcal, which equated to a 14.63\xc2\xb140.57 kcal/d decrease per year. Fifty-nine percent (n = 49) preserved their AEE and 41% (n = 34) declined. Those who demonstrated a decline in AEE were older, had lower walking speed at baseline and showed a higher lean mass loss during follow up. Otherwise, groups were similar for socio-demographic characteristics, body composition, mental and physical function, health conditions and community and personal behaviors at baseline and change in these factors during follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that AEE declines through the 8th decade of life and is associated with age, lower walking speed at baseline and lean mass loss. Additionally, there are a significant number of individuals who appear to be resilient to these declines despite having health events that are expected to have a negative impact on their physical activity. labels: #Aged#Basal Metabolism#Body Composition#Calorimetry, Indirect#Energy Metabolism#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male'
b"PURPOSE: Speed estimation of drivers' own vehicles and other vehicles on the road is an important task for drivers and is also crucial to the roadway safety. The objective of the study was to examine the effects of multiple factors such as image scale, speed, road type, driving experience, and gender on the speed perception of drivers' own vehicles.METHODS: Thirty participants consisted of 17 males and 13 females, including 13 without driving experience. All participants estimated the driving speed of 192 5-second video clips, which were selected from naturalistic driving recordings. The recorded driving speeds were evenly distributed across the entire range from 5mph to 65mph. Half of the selected video clips were recorded on wide roads and another half were recorded on comparatively narrow roads. Video clips were played on a large screen, with each clip shown in one of 4 image scales (100%, 75%, 50%, and 38% of the actual field of view in the real world).RESULTS: Speed estimates were most accurate for the smallest image size (38% of the actual field of view). As the image size increased, the driving speed was increasingly underestimated. Participants with driving experience accurately estimated the driving speed on both wide and narrow roads whereas those without driving experience had greater underestimates on wider roads. Speeds were most accurately estimated within the range 25-35mph, but the speeds slower than the range tend to be overestimated and the speeds faster than the range are more likely to be underestimated. While males and females showed the same pattern across speed groups, females have greater estimation errors at the highest and lowest speed groups. Participants without driving experience showed increasing underestimation of speed as driving speed increased whereas participants with driving experience primarily underestimated the highest speeds.CONCLUSIONS: The present study shows the effect of multidimensional influential factors on perceived vehicle speed from drivers' perspective. The results also have implications for driving simulation scenario design, driving simulator setup, and the assessment of speed control in simulated and naturalistic environments. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Automobile Driving#Computer Simulation#Distance Perception#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motion Perception#Safety#Task Performance and Analysis#Video Recording#Visual Perception"
b'RNA interference (RNAi) controls arbovirus infections in mosquitoes. Two different RNAi pathways are involved in antiviral responses: the PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) and exogenous short interfering RNA (exo-siRNA) pathways, which are characterized by the production of virus-derived small RNAs of 25-29 and 21 nucleotides, respectively. The exo-siRNA pathway is considered to be the key mosquito antiviral response mechanism. In Aedes aegypti-derived cells, Zika virus (ZIKV)-specific siRNAs were produced and loaded into the exo-siRNA pathway effector protein Argonaute 2 (Ago2); although the knockdown of Ago2 did not enhance virus replication. Enhanced ZIKV replication was observed in a Dcr2-knockout cell line suggesting that the exo-siRNA pathway is implicated in the antiviral response. Although ZIKV-specific piRNA-sized small RNAs were detected, these lacked the characteristic piRNA ping-pong signature motif and were bound to Ago3 but not Piwi5 or Piwi6. Silencing of PIWI proteins indicated that the knockdown of Ago3, Piwi5 or Piwi6 did not enhance ZIKV replication and only Piwi4 displayed antiviral activity. We also report that the expression of ZIKV capsid (C) protein amplified the replication of a reporter alphavirus; although, unlike yellow fever virus C protein, it does not inhibit the exo-siRNA pathway. Our findings elucidate ZIKV-mosquito RNAi interactions that are important for understanding its spread. labels: #Aedes#Alphavirus#Animals#Capsid Proteins#Cell Line#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Insect Proteins#RNA Interference#RNA, Small Interfering#Virus Replication#Yellow fever virus#Zika Virus#Zika Virus Infection'
b'Flotation is an important part of coal preparation, and the flotation column is widely applied as efficient flotation equipment. This process is complex and affected by many factors, with the froth depth and reagent dosage being two of the most important and frequently manipulated variables. This paper proposes a new method of switching and optimizing control for the coal flotation process. A hybrid model is built and evaluated using industrial data. First, wavelet analysis and principal component analysis (PCA) are applied for signal pre-processing. Second, a control model for optimizing the set point of the froth depth is constructed based on fuzzy control, and a control model is designed to optimize the reagent dosages based on expert system. Finally, the least squares-support vector machine (LS-SVM) is used to identify the operating conditions of the flotation process and to select one of the two models (froth depth or reagent dosage) for subsequent operation according to the condition parameters. The hybrid model is developed and evaluated on an industrial coal flotation column and exhibits satisfactory performance. labels: #Chemical Fractionation#Coal Mining#Humans#Principal Component Analysis#Support Vector Machine#Wavelet Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: As innovations in the prevention and treatment of HIV and TB advance, continuing professional development (CPD) of health care workers (HCWs) remains a high priority, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa where dual TB/HIV epidemics are compounded by severe HCW shortages. There is further need to examine CPD programs to identify challenges and effective solutions to strengthen HIV/TB-related CPD.METHODS: Qualitative evaluations in Malawi, Tanzania and South Africa (RSA) were conducted using key informant interviews (KIIs) and focus group discussions (FGDs) in each country to identify barriers and enablers of effective HIV/TB-related CPD. Key stakeholders represented CPD implementers, regulators, and developers. HCWs were purposively sampled from high disease burden districts; each HCW completed brief, semi-structured questionnaires and participated in a FGD. KII and FGD results were combined into key themes spanning across countries using a grounded theory approach.RESULTS: Fifty-two KIIs were conducted: 17 in Malawi, 19 in Tanzania and 16 in RSA. Eighty-nine HCWs (24 from Malawi, 38 from Tanzania and 27 from RSA) completed questionnaires and participated in FGDs. Primarily, lack of sustainable financial resources and limitations in coordination of CPD result in poor accountability for CPD oversight and reduce CPD quality assurance. Healthcare worker shortages limit CPD opportunities, creating disparities in CPD access. CPD irrelevance and imbalance between HCW-identified CPD needs and current programs reduce enthusiasm for CPD. Facility-level constraints, including poor infrastructure and weak supply chains, restrict implementation of CPD skills and knowledge. Challenges are more severe in rural settings.CONCLUSION: To address identified gaps, sustainable funding, strong leadership and collaboration at every level are needed to strengthen CPD regulation and accreditation systems; increase CPD accessibility in the workplace; and create enabling environments for CPD implementation. Together, these improvements may improve TB/HIV CPD quality and patient outcomes. labels: #Adult#Education, Medical, Continuing#Education, Nursing, Continuing#Female#HIV Infections#Health Personnel#Humans#Malawi#Male#Middle Aged#Qualitative Research#Quality of Health Care#South Africa#Surveys and Questionnaires#Tanzania#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Biomass was used as reducing agent to roast the Baotou low-grade limonite in a high temperature vacuum atmosphere furnace. The effect of calcination temperature, time and ratio of reducing agent on the magnetic properties of calcined ore was studied by VSM. The phase and microstructure changes of limonite before and after calcination were analyzed by XRD and SEM. The results show that in the roasting process the phase transition process of the ferrous material in limonite is first dehydrated at high temperature to form\xce\xb1-Fe2O3, and then it is converted into Fe3O4 by the reduction of biomass. With the increase of calcination temperature, the magnetic properties of the calcined ore first increase and then decrease. When the temperature is higher than 650\xc2\xb0C, Fe3O4 will become Fe2SiO4, resulting in reduced the magnetic material in calcined ore and the magnetic weakened. The best magnetization effect was obtained when the roasting temperature is 550\xc2\xb0C, the percentage of biomass was 15% and the roasting time was 30min. The saturation magnetization can reach 60.13emu\xc2\xb7g-1, the recovery of iron was 72% and the grade of iron was 58%. labels: #Biomass#Ferric Compounds#Hot Temperature#Iron#Magnetics#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Reducing Agents#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'Microglia-involved neuroinflammation is thought to promote brain damage in various neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, inhibition of microglial over-activation may have a therapeutic benefit for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Micheliolide (MCL) is a sesquiterpene lactone which inhibits various inflammatory response. However, whether MCL can inhibit neuroinflammation caused by LPS-activated BV2 microglia has not yet been explored. In this study, we demonstrated that treatment of BV2 cells with MCL significantly repressed LPS-stimulated nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression, as well as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-\xce\xb1), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and nitric oxide (NO) induction. MCL also attenuated mRNA levels of multiple pro-inflammatory cytokines and mediators such as iNOS, COX-2, TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6 and IL-1\xce\xb2. Mechanistic studies revealed that MCL suppressed LPS-stimulated the activation of I\xce\xbaB\xce\xb1/NF-\xce\xbaB pathway and Akt pathway. Moreover, MCL inhibited LPS-induced the activition of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 MAPK kinase, and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2). Meanwhile, MCL markedly promoted antioxidant protein heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression by enhancing NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) activity. Together, our results imply that MCL may serve as a neuroprotective agent in neuroinflammation-related neurodegenerative disorders. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Cell Line, Transformed#Cyclooxygenase 2#Gene Expression Regulation#Heme Oxygenase-1#Humans#Interleukin-1beta#Interleukin-6#Lipopolysaccharides#MAP Kinase Kinase 4#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Microglia#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#NF-kappa B#Neuroprotective Agents#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Sesquiterpenes, Guaiane#Signal Transduction#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases'
b'This case study involves a 22-year-old male who experienced\nmoderate pain in the left side of the mandible for two months. He was diagnosedwith an osteoblastoma and treated with local excision, curettage and extraction\nof the involved teeth. Radiographic follow-up indicated that the site healed well.Clinical, radiographic and histopathologic features are discussed. Osteoblastoma\nrequires interdisciplinary care and should be considered in the differential diagnosisof mixed-density lesions detected in the jaws. labels: #Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Male#Mandibular Neoplasms#Osteoblastoma#Radiography, Panoramic#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Young Adult'
b'We investigated concentrations and roles of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)\nand its binding protein (IGF1BP-3), growth hormone (GH), insulin, and markers of insulin resistanceand inflammation in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). We aimed to assess any possible association\nbetween serum GH/IGF-1 axis following AMI and short-term survival rates. A follow upstudy was performed in 2010. Study group consisted of 75 patients with Killip I and II class AMI.\nThere were 30 control subjects. Blood samples were obtained within 24 hours of admission and analyzedfor the aforementioned hormones. Patients were followed-up during 6 months for new cardiac\nevents. Median GH was higher in AMI (0.96; range 0.6-2.4) than in controls (0.26; p<0.001). IGF-1\nwas significantly lower in AMI (123 vs. 132; p<0.05), and so was the IGF-1/GH ratio (p<0.001) and\nIGF1BP-3. Insulin was higher in study group, but without statistical significance. However, we foundsignificant between-group differences in other markers of insulin resistance (HbA1c, glycemia,\nHOMA-IR) and inflammation. Simple linear correlation showed positive correlation between GHand C-reactive protein. All patients with new cardiac events had IGF-1 below median and lower left\nventricular ejection fraction. In conclusion, IGF-1 may affect outcome of AMI. GH resistance mightbe a result of inflammatory/immune response and therefore it could be a useful prognostic marker. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers#Female#Human Growth Hormone#Humans#Insulin-Like Growth Factor I#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Prognosis'
b'BACKGROUND: The substrate location and underlying electrophysiological mechanisms that contribute to the characteristic ECG pattern of Brugada syndrome (BrS) are still debated. Using noninvasive electrocardiographical imaging, we studied whole heart conduction and repolarization patterns during ajmaline challenge in BrS individuals.METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 13 participants (mean age, 44\xc2\xb112 years; 8 men), 11 concealed patients with type I BrS and 2 healthy controls, underwent an ajmaline infusion with electrocardiographical imaging and ECG recordings. Electrocardiographical imaging activation recovery intervals and activation timings across the right ventricle (RV) body, outflow tract (RVOT), and left ventricle were calculated and analyzed at baseline and when type I BrS pattern manifested after ajmaline infusion. Peak J-ST point elevation was calculated from the surface ECG and compared with the electrocardiographical imaging-derived parameters at the same time point. After ajmaline infusion, the RVOT had the greatest increase in conduction delay (5.4\xc2\xb12.8 versus 2.0\xc2\xb12.8 versus 1.1\xc2\xb11.6 ms;P=0.007) and activation recovery intervals prolongation (69\xc2\xb132 versus 39\xc2\xb129 versus 21\xc2\xb112 ms;P=0.0005) compared with RV or left ventricle. In controls, there was minimal change in J-ST point elevation, conduction delay, or activation recovery intervals at all sites with ajmaline. In patients with BrS, conduction delay in RVOT, but not RV or left ventricle, correlated to the degree of J-ST point elevation (PearsonR, 0.81;P<0.001). No correlation was found between J-ST point elevation and activation recovery intervals prolongation in the RVOT, RV, or left ventricle.CONCLUSIONS: Magnitude of ST (J point) elevation in the type I BrS pattern is attributed to degree of conduction delay in the RVOT and not prolongation in repolarization time. labels: #Action Potentials#Adult#Ajmaline#Anti-Arrhythmia Agents#Body Surface Potential Mapping#Brugada Syndrome#Case-Control Studies#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Heart Rate#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Refractory Period, Electrophysiological#Signal Processing, Computer-Assisted#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent studies have demonstrated that intramyocardial adipose tissue (IMAT) may contribute to ventricular electrophysiological remodeling in patients with chronic myocardial infarction. Using an ovine model of myocardial infarction, we aimed to determine the influence of IMAT on scar tissue identification during endocardial contact mapping and optimal voltage-based mapping criteria for defining IMAT dense regions.METHOD AND RESULTS: In 7 sheep, left ventricular endocardial and transmural mapping was performed 84 weeks (15-111 weeks) post-myocardial infarction. Spearman rank correlation coefficient was used to assess the relationship between endocardial contact electrogram amplitude and histological composition of myocardium. Receiver operator characteristic curves were used to derive optimal electrogram thresholds for IMAT delineation during endocardial mapping and to describe the use of endocardial mapping for delineation of IMAT dense regions within scar. Endocardial electrogram amplitude correlated significantly with IMAT (unipolarr=-0.48\xc2\xb10.12,P<0.001; bipolarr=-0.45\xc2\xb10.22,P=0.04) but not collagen (unipolarr=-0.36\xc2\xb10.24,P=0.13; bipolarr=-0.43\xc2\xb10.31,P=0.16). IMAT dense regions of myocardium reliably identified using endocardial mapping with thresholds of<3.7 and<0.6 mV, respectively, for unipolar, bipolar, and combined modalities (single modality area under the curve=0.80,P<0.001; combined modality area under the curve=0.84,P<0.001). Unipolar mapping using optimal thresholding remained significantly reliable (area under the curve=0.76,P<0.001) during mapping of IMAT, confined to putative scar border zones (bipolar amplitude, 0.5-1.5 mV).CONCLUSIONS: These novel findings enhance our understanding of the confounding influence of IMAT on endocardial scar mapping. Combined bipolar and unipolar voltage mapping using optimal thresholds may be useful for delineating IMAT dense regions of myocardium, in postinfarct cardiomyopathy. labels: #Action Potentials#Adipose Tissue#Animals#Area Under Curve#Biopsy#Cicatrix#Collagen#Disease Models, Animal#Electrophysiologic Techniques, Cardiac#Endocardium#Heart Rate#Male#Myocardial Infarction#Myocardium#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Sheep, Domestic#Signal Processing, Computer-Assisted'
b"BACKGROUND: Arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy (AC) is an inherited heart muscle disease associated with point mutations in genes encoding for cardiac desmosome proteins. Conventional mutation screening is positive in \xe2\x89\x8850% of probands. Copy number variations (CNVs) have recently been linked to AC pointing to the need to determine the prevalence of CNVs in desmosomal genes and to evaluate disease penetrance by cosegregation analysis in family members.METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 160 AC genotype-negative probands for 5 AC desmosomal genes by conventional mutation screening underwent multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Nine heterozygous CNVs were identified in 11 (6.9%) of the 160 probands. Five carried a deletion of the entire plakophilin-2 (PKP2) gene, 2 a deletion of onlyPKP2exon 4, 1 a deletion of thePKP2exons 6 to 11, 1 aPKP2duplication of 5' untranslated region till exon 1, 1 the desmocollin-2 (DSC2) duplication of exons 7 to 9, and 1 a large deletion of chromosome 18 comprising bothDSC2anddesmoglein-2genes. All probands were affected by moderate-severe forms of the disease, whereas 10 (32%) of the 31 family members carrying one of these deletions fulfilled the diagnostic criteria.CONCLUSIONS: Genomic rearrangements were detected in \xe2\x89\x887% of AC probands negative for pathogenic point mutations in desmosomal genes, highlighting the potential of CNVs analysis to substantially increase the diagnostic yield of genetic testing. Genotype-phenotype correlation demonstrated the presence of the disease in about one third of family members carrying the CNV, underlying the role of other factors in the development and progression of the disease. labels: #Action Potentials#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA Mutational Analysis#Desmocollins#Desmoglein 2#Desmoplakins#Desmosomes#Electrocardiography#Electrophysiologic Techniques, Cardiac#Female#Gene Deletion#Gene Dosage#Gene Duplication#Gene Rearrangement#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Heart Rate#Heredity#Humans#Italy#Male#Middle Aged#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction#Pedigree#Phenotype#Plakophilins#Point Mutation#Risk Factors#Young Adult#gamma Catenin"
b'BACKGROUND: Although dofetilide labeling states that the drug must be initiated or reinitiated with continuous electrocardiographic monitoring and in the presence of trained personnel, the risks of dofetilide reloading justifying repeat hospitalization have not been investigated.METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients admitted for dofetilide reloading for atrial arrhythmias were retrospectively reviewed. The need for dose adjustment and the incidence of torsades de pointes (TdP) were identified. The incidence of TdP in dofetilide reloading was compared with patients admitted for dofetilide initial loading. Of 138 patients admitted for dofetilide reloading for atrial arrhythmias, 102 were reloaded at a previously tolerated dose, 30 with a higher dose from a previously tolerated dose and 2 at a lower dose; prior dosage was unknown in 4 patients. Dose adjustment or discontinuation was required in 44 patients (31.9%). No TdP occurred in the same dose reloading group, but TdP occurred in 2 patients admitted to increase dofetilide dosage (0% versus 6.7%;P=0.050). Dofetilide dose adjustment or discontinuation was required in 30 of 102 patients (29.4%) reloaded at a previously tolerated dose and in 11 of 30 patients (36.7%) admitted for an increase in dose.CONCLUSIONS: Although no TdP occurred in patients admitted to reload dofetilide at the same dose as previously tolerated, dosage adjustments or discontinuation was frequent and support the need for hospitalization for dofetilide reloading. Patients admitted for reloading with a higher dose tended to be at higher risk for TdP than patients reloaded at a prior tolerated dose. labels: #Administration, Oral#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Arrhythmia Agents#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug Dosage Calculations#Electrocardiography, Ambulatory#Female#Heart Atria#Heart Rate#Humans#Male#Medical Records#Middle Aged#Patient Admission#Phenethylamines#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sulfonamides#Time Factors#Torsades de Pointes#Treatment Outcome'
b'Guillain-Barr\xc3\xa9 syndrome (GBS) is a heterogeneous group of acute immune-mediated neuropathies, including acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (AIDP) and acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN). AMAN is an axonal subtype of GBS that has been known since the 1990s; this term was first used to describe a summer epidemic of acute ascending paralysis observed in children in northern China (and Mexico). It is pathologically characterized by noninflammatory axonal degeneration of the motor nerves (with little or no demyelination). The French neurologist Jules Dejerine (1849-1917) conducted a clinical and pathologic description of AMAN in the late 19th century. We describe his observations, which provide us with valuable information on the course of pathologic lesions in this disease. labels: #Axons#Brain#France#Guillain-Barre Syndrome#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#Humans#Male#Medical Illustration#Muscle, Skeletal#Neurologists#Peripheral Nerves'
b'BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common cardiac disease in aging populations with high comorbidity and mortality. Sex differences in AF epidemiology are insufficiently understood.METHODS: In N=79\xe2\x80\x89793 individuals without AF diagnosis at baseline (median age, 49.6 years; age range, 24.1-97.6 years; 51.7% women) from 4 community-based European studies (FINRISK, DanMONICA, Moli-sani Northern Sweden) of the BiomarCaRE consortium (Biomarker for Cardiovascular Risk Assessment in Europe), we examined AF incidence, its association with mortality, common risk factors, biomarkers, and prevalent cardiovascular disease, and their attributable risk by sex. Median follow-up time was 12.6 (to a maximum of 28.2) years.RESULTS: Fewer AF cases were observed in women (N=1796; 4.4%), than in men (N=2465; 6.4%). Cardiovascular risk factor distribution and lipid profile at baseline were less beneficial in men than in women, and cardiovascular disease was more prevalent in men. Cumulative incidence increased markedly after the age of 50 years in men and after 60 years in women. The lifetime risk was similar (>30%) for both sexes. Subjects with incident AF had a 3.5-fold risk of death in comparison with those without AF. Multivariable-adjusted models showed sex differences for the association of body mass index and AF (hazard ratio per standard deviation increase, 1.18; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12-1.23 in women versus 1.31; 95% CI 1.25-1.38 in men; interactionPvalue of 0.001). Total cholesterol was inversely associated with incident AF with a greater risk reduction in women (hazard ratio per SD, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.81-0.90 versus 0.92; 95% CI, 0.88-0.97 in men; interactionPvalue of 0.023). No sex differences were seen for C-reactive protein and N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide. The population-attributable risk of all risk factors combined was 41.9% in women and 46.0% in men. About 20% of the risk was observed for body mass index.CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime risk of AF was high, and AF was strongly associated with increased mortality both in women and men. Body mass index explained the largest proportion of AF risk. Observed sex differences in the association of body mass index and total cholesterol with AF need to be evaluated for underlying pathophysiology and relevance to sex-specific prevention strategies. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Atrial Fibrillation#Body Mass Index#Cholesterol#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Norway#Risk Factors#Sex Characteristics#Sex Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Clinical trials have established the average benefit of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT), but estimating benefit for individual patients remains difficult because of the heterogeneity in treatment response. Accordingly, we created a multivariable model to predict changes in quality of life (QoL) with and without CRT.METHODS AND RESULTS: Patient-level data from 5 randomized trials comparing CRT with no CRT were used to create a prediction model of change in QoL at 3 months using a partial proportional odds model for no change, small, moderate, and large improvement, or deterioration of any magnitude. The C statistics for not worsening or obtaining at least a small, moderate, and large improvement were calculated. Among the 3614 patients, regardless of assigned treatment, 33.3% had a deterioration in QoL, 9.2% had no change, 9.2% had a small improvement, 13.5% had a moderate improvement, and the remaining 34.9% had a large improvement. Patients undergoing CRT were less likely to have a decrement in their QoL (28.2% versus 38.9%;P<0.001) and more likely to have a large QoL improvement (38.7% versus 30.6%;P<0.001). A partial proportional odds model identified baseline QoL, age, and an interaction of CRT with QRS duration as predictors of QoL benefits 3 months after randomization. C statistics of 0.65 for not worsening, 0.68 for at least a small improvement, 0.69 for at least a moderate improvement, and 0.73 for predicting a large improvement were observed.CONCLUSIONS: There is marked heterogeneity of treatment benefit of CRT that can be predicted based on baseline QoL, age, and QRS duration. labels: #Action Potentials#Age Factors#Aged#Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy#Decision Support Techniques#Electrocardiography#Evidence-Based Medicine#Female#Health Status#Heart Failure#Heart Rate#Humans#Linear Models#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Precision Medicine#Predictive Value of Tests#Quality of Life#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Recovery of Function#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: One schedule for the capsular group B meningococcal vaccine 4CMenB is 2 doses that are administered 2 months apart for children aged 12-23 months, with a booster dose 12-24 months later. Our objective was to provide data on persistence of human serum bactericidal antibody (hSBA) titres in children up to 4 years of age after initial doses at 12-24 months, and immunogenicity of a booster dose at 48 months of age compared with vaccine-naive children.METHODS: Children previously immunized, as part of a randomized controlled trial, with 2 doses of 4CMenB vaccine at 12-24 months of age received a booster at 4 years of age. Vaccine-naive age-matched toddlers received 2 doses of 4CMenB. Human serum bactericidal antibody titres against reference strains H44/76, 5/99, NZ98/254 and M10713 were evaluated before and after innoculation with 4CMenB vaccine in 4-year-old children.RESULTS: Of 332 children in the study, 123 had previously received 4CMenB and 209 were vaccine-naive controls. Before the booster, the proportions of participants (previously vaccinated groups compared with controls) with hSBA titres of 1:5 or more were as follows: 9%-11% v. 1% (H44/76), 84%-100% v. 4% (5/99), 0%-18% v. 0% (NZ98/254) and 59%-60% v. 60% (M10713). After 1 dose of 4CMenB in previously immunized children, the proportions of participants achieving hSBA titres of 1:5 or more were 100% (H44/76 and 5/99), 70%-100% (NZ98/254) and 90%-100% (M10713).INTERPRETATION: We found that waning of hSBA titres by 4 years of age occurred after 2 doses of 4CMenB vaccine administered at 12-24 months, and doses at 12-24 months have a priming effect on the immune system. A booster may be necessary to maintain hSBA titres of 1:5 or more among those children with increased disease risk.Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov, no. NCT01717638. labels: #Antibodies, Bacterial#Child, Preschool#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Male#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Neisseria meningitidis, Serogroup B#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vaccination'
b'OBJECTIVES: Understand the role of health beliefs in shaping maternal decisions regarding help-seeking for children with developmental delay (DD) and explore differences between African American and Hispanic mothers.METHODS: Open-ended, semistructured interviews were conducted with African American and Hispanic mothers of children aged 0 to 36 months with DD. Interviews were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed by using inductive content analysis.RESULTS: Mothers (n= 22) were African American (36%) or Hispanic (64%), 25 to 34 years old (64%), had less than a high school education (59%), and had children receiving public insurance (95%). Five major themes emerged describing the role of maternal health beliefs in shaping key stages of the help-seeking pathway for children with DD: (1) "I can see" (observing other children and making comparisons); (2) "Children are different and develop in their own time" (perceiving that their child might be different, but not necessarily delayed); (3) "It\'s not that I don\'t trust the doctor" (relying on social networks rather than pediatricians to inform the help-seeking pathway); (4) "I got so much going on" (difficulty prioritizing early intervention [EI] because of competing stressors); and (5) limited and conflicting information (delaying or forgoing EI because of limited or conflicting information). Differences between African American and Hispanic mothers are also described.CONCLUSIONS: Understanding maternal health beliefs and expectations regarding DD and EI, acknowledging the influence of social networks on help-seeking, and addressing social and financial stressors are critical to ensuring that children with DD are identified and supported at an early age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#African Americans#Child Development#Child, Preschool#Culture#Early Medical Intervention#Female#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Infant#Male#Mother-Child Relations#Poverty#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'Image scanning microscopy (ISM) doubles the resolution of a conventional confocal microscope for super-resolution imaging. Here, we describe an all-optical ISM design based on rescanning microscopy for two-photon-excited fluorescence and second-harmonic generation that allows straightforward implementation into existing microscopes. The design offers improved sensitivity and high frame rates relative to those of existing systems. We demonstrate its utility using fixed and living specimens as well as collagen hydrogels. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Drosophila melanogaster#Humans#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Fluorescence#Signal-To-Noise Ratio'
b'Rotaviruses C (RVCs) have been detected in pigs, humans, cows, ferrets and dogs. Despite their zoonotic impact and pathogenicity, the genetic characterization of RVCs is incomplete, unlike rotaviruses A (RVAs), whose genetics are well studied. Several studies reported partial and complete genomic sequences for multiple porcine and canine RVCs. We aimed to establish a complete genome-based genotyping system for RVCs, by analysing complete genome data from 22 porcine RVCs identified in Japan from 2002 to 2010, along with those from multiple human, bovine, porcine, canine and ferret RVCs reported in several previous studies. Comparative sequence analyses among RVCs from various host species demonstrated that porcine RVCs had a high level of genetic diversity. In addition, phylogenetic analyses of all 11 RNA segments indicated that porcine RVCs could be classified into multiple genotypes. Notably, the VP4 dendrogram divided bovine RVCs into multiple genotypes. Consequently, the provisional genotype classification for RVCs from terrestrial mammals revealed the existence of genotypes 18G, 21P, 13I, 4R, 6C, 6M, 9A, 8N, 6T, 5E and 4H for the genes VP7, VP4, VP6, VP1, VP2, VP3, NSP1, NSP2, NSP3, NSP4 and NSP5, respectively, based on the cut-off values as defined by the Rotavirus Classification Working Group. The system established in this study deepens our understanding of RVC evolution and facilitates the discovery of genetic events (gene reassortment and interspecies transmission) among RVCs. labels: #Animals#Genetic Variation#Genome, Viral#Genotype#Genotyping Techniques#Humans#Mammals#Rotavirus#Rotavirus Infections#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b'School nurses address mental health issues of youth on a daily basis. These mental health issues include substance abuse, anxiety, depression, and even suicidal ideation. Mental health first aid is a process that seeks to help medical professionals and laypeople recognize and address someone that is having a mental health or substance abuse crisis. This article will describe an experience with a student having suicidal ideations and how the mental health action plan was used. labels: #Child#First Aid#Humans#Mental Disorders#Nursing Process#School Health Services#School Nursing#Students'
b"Care coordination is an important part of school nurses' responsibilities, but coordinating that care for students in schools with chronic conditions is more complex than what we learned in nursing school. This article is the second in a series of articles for NASN School Nurse that will delve into how to apply evidence-based practice (EBP) to school nursing. The article focuses on the first step of EBP: asking the question. As the series progresses, we encourage you to apply the steps to a situation in your setting or even use the series to increase discussions at nursing staff meetings so all can benefit. labels: #Child#Chronic Disease#Disabled Children#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Patient Care Planning#School Health Services#School Nursing#Students"
b'Adolescent depression is a silent epidemic in this country. Untreated depression has detrimental effects on physical health, psychosocial well-being, and academic productivity. It is important for school nurses to be able to recognize depression and refer students promptly for treatment. This article and its associated learning module will provide school nurses with updated information on adolescent depression, discuss barriers in depression screening, use of the PHQ-9 (Patient Health Questionaire-9 Item) as an evidence-based depression screening tool in the educational setting, and the important role of school nurses in depression screening. It is anticipated that by increasing awareness and knowledge about adolescent depression and providing training in the use of an evidence-based screening tool, school nurses will have greater confidence in identifying and referring students in need. (A free online depression screening education module developed by the lead author is available at https://sites.google.com/view/depressionscreeningtraining .). labels: #Adolescent#Adolescent Health Services#Child#Depressive Disorder#Humans#Nursing Process#Referral and Consultation#School Health Services#School Nursing#Students'
b'Step Up&Be Counted! (Step Up!) is an innovative project to collect nationally standardized data from the daily documentation of school nurses throughout the United States. Step Up! provides the standardization needed to promote an "apples to apples" analysis of school health resources, interventions, and outcomes across the United States. While some states have collected data for decades and have an effective infrastructure in place, other states are new to data collection and are creating processes to support data collection. Designated State Data Champions have volunteered to collect aggregated de-identified data from school districts throughout their state. The following is a discussion of some of the data collection innovations shared by Designated State Data Champions at the 2017 NASN Annual Conference. labels: #Databases, Factual#Datasets as Topic#Humans#Leadership#Nurse\'s Role#School Health Services#School Nursing#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Highly cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) was developed to address the problem of wear and osteolysis associated with metal-on-conventional ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) bearing surfaces. The purpose of this study was to compare in vivo wear rates and clinical and radiographic outcomes between XLPE and UHMWPE in a prospective double-blinded randomized controlled trial with a minimum of 10 years of follow-up.METHODS: We randomized 122 patients to receive either a conventional UHMWPE liner (Enduron; DePuy) or an XLPE liner (Marathon; DePuy). Ninety-one patients were assessed clinically and radiographically at a minimum of 10 years (range, 10.08 to 12.17 years). Oxford Hip Scores and Short Form-12 Health Survey scores were collected. The radiographs were analyzed for osteolysis and for 2-dimensional (2-D), 3-dimensional (3-D), and volumetric wear using validated software.RESULTS: All 122 patients were accounted for at the 10-year follow-up evaluation. Twelve patients had undergone revision surgery, 21 patients had died (1 of whom had previously undergone revision surgery), and 2 patients were unable to return for follow-up, leaving 91 patients available for clinical and radiographic evaluation. At a minimum of 10 years, 3-D wear rates were significantly lower (p<0.001) in the XLPE group (mean, 0.03 mm/yr) than in the conventional UHMWPE group (mean, 0.27 mm/yr). The prevalence of osteolysis was also significantly lower in the XLPE group (38% versus 8%, p<0.005), as was the revision rate (14.6% versus 1.9%, p = 0.012), with 10 of the 12 revisions being in the Enduron group. There was no significant difference between the clinical scores of the 2 groups.CONCLUSIONS: XLPE liners have significantly reduced wear and are associated with a greater implant survival rate at 10 years compared with conventional UHMWPE liners.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level I. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Aged#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Cross-Linking Reagents#Double-Blind Method#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hip Prosthesis#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Osteoarthritis, Hip#Polyethylene#Prospective Studies#Prosthesis Design#Prosthesis Failure#Reoperation#Treatment Outcome'
b'In 2005, we conducted a prospective randomized controlled trial that demonstrated that, compared with a standard incision, a minimal incision technique did not improve early outcomes of total hip arthroplasty (THA). There was concern that reduced exposure could compromise long-term outcome. For the current study, all surviving participants were invited to return for 10-year radiographic and clinical evaluation. Outcome scores were available for 152 patients (69.4%) from the original cohort, and radiographs were available for 126 (57.5%). The median duration of follow-up was 124 months. We did not find significant differences in functional status or radiographic outcome between the minimal and standard incision groups at 10 years. The 10-year implant survival rate was 99.1% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 97.3% to 100%) in the standard incision group and 97.9% (95% CI = 95.1% to 100%) in the minimal incision group (p = 0.57). We concluded that minimal incision THA performed by a high-volume surgeon does not compromise long-term results but offers no benefit over a standard incision.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level I. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Aged#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Minimally Invasive Surgical Procedures#Osteoarthritis, Hip#Prospective Studies#Radiography#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: There has been serious concern regarding the longevity and durability of outcomes of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) in younger patients. It was the purpose of this study to analyze long-term outcomes and complications of RTSA for irreparable rotator cuff tears in patients younger than 60 years.METHODS: Twenty patients (23 shoulders) with a mean age of 57 years (range, 47 to 59 years) were evaluated at a mean of 11.7 years (range, 8 to 19 years) after RTSA. Fifteen shoulders (65%) had undergone previous non-arthroplasty surgery. Longitudinal clinical and radiographic outcomes were assessed.RESULTS: At the time of final follow-up, the mean absolute and relative preoperative Constant score (CS) (and standard deviation) had improved from 24 \xc2\xb1 9 to 59 \xc2\xb1 19 points (p<0.001) and from 29% \xc2\xb1 11% to 69% \xc2\xb1 21% (p<0.001), respectively. The mean Subjective Shoulder Value (SSV) had increased from 20% \xc2\xb1 13% to 71% \xc2\xb1 27% (p<0.001). There were also significant improvements in the mean active anterior elevation (from 64\xc2\xb0 to 117\xc2\xb0), active abduction (from 58\xc2\xb0 to 111\xc2\xb0), pain scores, and strength (all p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001). Clinical outcomes did not significantly deteriorate beyond 10 years and the functional results of patients with previous surgical procedures were not significantly inferior to the results of those with primary RTSA. The grade of, and number of patients with, radiographically apparent notching increased over time; the mean relative CS was lower in patients in whom the notching was grade 2 or higher (57%) than it was in those with no or grade-1 notching (81%; p = 0.006). Nine (39%) had \xe2\x89\xa51 complication, with 2 failed RTSAs (9%).CONCLUSIONS: RTSA in patients younger than 60 years leads to substantial subjective and functional improvement without clinical deterioration beyond 10 years. It is associated with a substantial complication rate, and complications compromise ultimate subjective and objective outcomes.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Age Factors#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Shoulder#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Radiography#Recovery of Function#Retrospective Studies#Rotator Cuff Injuries#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: The optimal technique for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is controversial, and both single and double-row techniques are commonly used. In the current era of increasing costs, health-care delivery models are focusing on the value of care. In this study, we compared the cost-effectiveness of single-row and double-row reconstructions in patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed from the perspective of a publicly funded health-care system. Health-care costs, probabilities, and utility values were derived from the published literature. Efficacy data were obtained from a previous randomized controlled trial comparing the effect of single-row (n = 48) or double-row (n = 42) reconstruction among 90 surgical patients. Unit cost data were obtained from a hospital database and the Ontario Schedule of Benefits and Fees. Results are presented as an incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. All costs are presented in 2015 Canadian dollars. A series of 1-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.RESULTS: Double-row fixation was more costly ($2,134.41 compared with $1,654.76) but was more effective than the single-row method (4.073 compared with 4.055 QALYs). An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was estimated to be $26,666.75 per QALY gained for double-row relative to single-row fixation. A subgroup analysis demonstrated that patients with larger rotator cuff tears (\xe2\x89\xa53 cm) had a lower ICER, suggesting that double-row fixation may be more cost-effective for larger tears.CONCLUSIONS: Based on the willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000 per QALY gained, double-row fixation was found to be more cost-effective than single-row. Furthermore, a double-row reconstruction was found to be more economically attractive for larger rotator cuff tears (\xe2\x89\xa53 cm).LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and Decision Analysis Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Arthroscopy#Canada#Clinical Decision-Making#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Decision Trees#Health Care Costs#Humans#Quality-Adjusted Life Years#Rotator Cuff Injuries#Suture Techniques#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite recent advances, infection remains the most common etiology of arthroplasty failure. Recent work suggests that 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25D) deficiency correlates with the frequency of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI). We endeavored to examine whether 25D3 deficiency leads to increased bacterial burden in vivo in an established mouse model of PJI and, if so, whether this effect can be reversed by preoperative 25D3 supplementation.METHODS: Mice (lys-EGFP) possessing fluorescent neutrophils were fed a vitamin D3-sufficient (n = 20) or deficient (n = 40) diet for 6 weeks. A group of 25D3-deficient mice (n = 20) were "rescued" with 1 intraperitoneal dose of 25D3 at 3 days before surgery. A stainless steel implant was inserted into the knee joint and the joint space was inoculated with bioluminescent Staphylococcus aureus (1 \xc3\x97 10 colony forming units [CFUs]). In vivo imaging was used to monitor bacterial burden and neutrophil infiltration. Blood was drawn to confirm 25D3 levels 3 days before surgery and on postoperative days (PODs) 0 and 14. Mice were killed at POD 21, and CFUs were quantified after culture. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) and \xce\xb2-N-acetylglucosaminidase (NAG) were assayed to look at neutrophil infiltration and activated tissue macrophage recruitment, respectively.RESULTS: Serum values confirmed 25D3 deficiency and repletion of the 25D3-rescued group. Bacterial bioluminescence and neutrophil fluorescence were significantly greater (p<0.05) in the 25D3-deficient group. CFU counts from the joint tissue and implant were also significantly greater in this group (p<0.05). Rescue treatment significantly decreased bacterial burden and neutrophil infiltration (p<0.05). Compared with the 25D3-sufficient and 25D3-rescued groups, MPO activity was higher (p<0.02) and NAG activity was lower (p<0.03) in the 25D3-deficient group.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated in vivo in a mouse model of PJI that (1) 25D3 deficiency results in increased bacterial burden and neutrophil infiltration, and (2) this effect can be reversed with preoperative repletion of 25D3.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Considering that>65% of patients undergoing arthroplasty have insufficient or low levels of total 25D and that 25D levels can be replenished with ease using a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved, oral 25D3 product, 25D deficiency may be an important modifiable risk factor in humans undergoing joint replacement. labels: #Animals#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee#Bacterial Load#Biomarkers#Dietary Supplements#Drug Administration Schedule#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Knee Prosthesis#Male#Mice#Neutrophil Infiltration#Preoperative Care#Prosthesis-Related Infections#Random Allocation#Risk Factors#Staphylococcal Infections#Vitamin D#Vitamin D Deficiency#Vitamins'
b"BACKGROUND: Postoperative pelvic radiographs are routinely used to assess acetabular fracture reduction. We compared radiographs and computed tomography (CT) with regard to their ability to detect residual fracture displacement. We also determined the association between the quality of reduction as assessed on CT and hip survivorship and identified risk factors for conversion to total hip arthroplasty (THA).METHODS: Patients were included in the study who had undergone acetabular fracture fixation between 1992 and 2012, who were followed for \xe2\x89\xa52 years (or until early THA), and for whom radiographs and a pelvic CT scan were available. Residual displacement was measured on postoperative radiographs and CT and graded according to Matta's criteria (0 to 1 mm indicating anatomic reduction; 2 to 3 mm, imperfect reduction; and>3 mm, poor reduction) by observers who were blinded to patient outcome. Kaplan-Meier survivorship curves were plotted and log-rank tests were used to assess statistical differences in survivorship curves between adequate (anatomic or imperfect) and inadequate reductions on CT. Cox proportional hazard regression analysis was used to identify risk factors for conversion to THA. Two hundred and eleven patients were included. At mean of 9.0 years (standard deviation [SD], 5.6; median, 7.9; range, 0.5 to 23.3 years) postoperatively, 161 patients (76%) had retained their native hip.RESULTS: Compared with radiographs, CT showed worse reduction in 124 hips (59%), the same reduction in 79 (37%), and better reduction in 8 (4%). Of the 99 patients graded as having adequate reduction on CT, 10% underwent conversion to THA in comparison with 36% of those with inadequate reduction, and there was a significant difference between the survivorship curves (p<0.001). Mean hip survivorship was shorter in patients \xe2\x89\xa550 years of age (p<0.001) and in those with an inadequate reduction on CT (p<0.001). Independent risk factors for conversion to THA were age (hazard ratio [HR] = 4.46, 95% confidence interval [CI]= 2.07 to 9.62; p<0.001), inadequate reduction (HR = 3.57, 95% CI = 1.71 to 7.45; p = 0.001), and posterior wall involvement (HR = 1.81, 95% CI = 1.00 to 3.26; p = 0.049). Sex, fracture type (elementary versus associated), and year of surgery did not influence hip survivorship.CONCLUSIONS: CT is superior to radiographs for detecting residual displacement after acetabular fracture fixation. Hip survivorship is greater in patients with adequate (anatomic or imperfect) reduction on CT. Along with older age and posterior wall involvement, an inadequate reduction on CT is a risk factor for conversion to THA.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Acetabulum#Adolescent#Adult#Aftercare#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Care#Proportional Hazards Models#Reoperation#Retrospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Surgery for spinal metastases is challenging and carries a high risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality. Procedures with such characteristics often exhibit a volume-outcome relationship. This has not been previously characterized for spinal metastasis surgery to our knowledge.METHODS: The Florida State Inpatient Database (2011 through 2014) was queried to identify patients who had undergone surgery for spinal metastases. Surgeon and hospital surgical volumes were compared with 90-day complication and readmission rates to develop procedural cut-points used to define high and low-volume providers. These were included in a multivariable logistic regression analysis that was adjusted for confounders. A separate analysis was performed to evaluate the effect of race/ethnicity and insurance status on the likelihood of receiving care from a high-volume surgeon or hospital.RESULTS: This study included 3,135 patients treated by 1,488 surgeons at 162 hospitals. Patients treated at low-volume hospitals had significantly higher odds of having postoperative complications (odds ratio [OR] = 1.47; 95% confidence interval [CI]= 1.13, 1.91) and readmissions (OR = 1.36; 95% CI = 1.06, 1.75). Those treated by low-volume surgeons also demonstrated a higher likelihood of complications (OR = 1.40; 95% CI = 1.16, 1.69) and readmissions (OR = 1.38; 95% CI = 1.17, 1.62). The likelihood of receiving intervention from a high-volume surgeon was significantly lower for African Americans (OR = 0.55; 95% CI = 0.41, 0.75) and Hispanics (OR = 0.60; 95% CI = 0.44, 0.83). The odds of being treated at a high-volume hospital were also significantly lower for African Americans (OR = 0.58; 95% CI = 0.40, 0.84) and Hispanics (OR = 0.28; 95% CI = 0.20, 0.38).CONCLUSIONS: There is a clear relationship between the volume and outcomes of surgical treatment of spinal metastases, with high-volume providers demonstrating reduced complication and readmission rates. Racial and ethnic minorities appear to experience health-care segregation when it comes to surgical care for spinal metastases. Regionalization of care for these conditions may help improve access to high-volume providers and mitigate disparities in care.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Adult#Aged#Databases, Factual#Female#Florida#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Humans#Logistic Models#Lymphoma#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Myeloma#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Spinal Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: The etiology of hip instability in Down syndrome is not completely understood. We investigated the morphology of the acetabulum and femur in patients with Down syndrome and compared measurements of the hips with those of matched controls.METHODS: Computed tomography (CT) images of the pelvis of 42 patients with Down syndrome and hip symptoms were compared with those of 42 age and sex-matched subjects without Down syndrome or history of hip disease who had undergone CT for abdominal pain. Each of the cohorts had 23 male and 19 female subjects. The mean age (and standard deviation) in each cohort was 11.3 \xc2\xb1 5.3 years. The lateral center-edge angle (LCEA), acetabular inclination angle (IA), acetabular depth-width ratio (ADR), acetabular version, and anterior and posterior acetabular sector angles (AASA and PASA) were compared. The neck-shaft angle and femoral version were measured in the patients with Down syndrome only. The hips of the patients with Down syndrome were further categorized as stable (n = 21) or unstable (n = 63) for secondary analysis.RESULTS: The hips in the Down syndrome group had a smaller LCEA (mean, 10.8\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 12.6\xc2\xb0 compared with 25.6\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 4.6\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001), a larger IA (mean, 17.4\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 10.3\xc2\xb0 compared with 10.9\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 4.8\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001), a lower ADR (mean, 231.9 \xc2\xb1 56.2 compared with 306.8 \xc2\xb1 31.0; p<0.0001), a more retroverted acetabulum (mean acetabular version as measured at the level of the centers of the femoral heads [AVC], 7.8\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 5.1\xc2\xb0 compared with 14.0\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 4.5\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001), a smaller AASA (mean, 55.0\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 9.9\xc2\xb0 compared with 59.7\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 7.8\xc2\xb0; p = 0.005), and a smaller PASA (mean, 67.1\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 10.4\xc2\xb0 compared with 85.2\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 6.8\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001). Within the Down syndrome cohort, the unstable hips showed greater femoral anteversion (mean, 32.7\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 14.6\xc2\xb0 compared with 23.6\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 10.6\xc2\xb0; p = 0.002) and worse global acetabular insufficiency compared with the stable hips. No differences between the unstable and stable hips were found with respect to acetabular version (mean AVC, 7.8\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 5.5\xc2\xb0 compared with 7.6\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 3.8\xc2\xb0; p = 0.93) and the neck-shaft angle (mean, 133.7\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 6.7\xc2\xb0 compared with 133.2\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 6.4\xc2\xb0; p = 0.81).CONCLUSIONS: Patients with Down syndrome and hip-related symptoms had more retroverted and shallower acetabula with globally reduced coverage of the femoral head compared with age and sex-matched subjects. Hip instability among those with Down syndrome was associated with worse global acetabular insufficiency and increased femoral anteversion, but not with more severe acetabular retroversion. No difference in the mean femoral neck-shaft angle was observed between the stable and unstable hips in the Down syndrome cohort.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Acetabulum#Adolescent#Adult#Bone Anteversion#Bone Retroversion#Case-Control Studies#Child#Child, Preschool#Down Syndrome#Female#Femur Head#Hip Joint#Humans#Joint Instability#Male#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Young Adult'
b'Alphaviruses, such as chikungunya virus, and flaviviruses, such as dengue virus, are (re)-emerging arboviruses that are endemic in tropical environments. In Africa, arbovirus infections are often undiagnosed and unreported, with febrile illnesses often assumed to be malaria. This cross-sectional study aimed to characterize the seroprevalence of alphaviruses and flaviviruses among children (ages 5-14, n = 250) and adults (ages 15 \xe2\x89\xa5 75, n = 250) in western Kenya. Risk factors for seropositivity were explored using Lasso regression. Overall, 67% of participants showed alphavirus seropositivity (CI95 63%-70%), and 1.6% of participants showed flavivirus seropositivity (CI95 0.7%-3%). Children aged 10-14 were more likely to be seropositive to an alphavirus than adults (p<0.001), suggesting a recent transmission period. Alphavirus and flavivirus seropositivity was detected in the youngest participants (age 5-9), providing evidence of inter-epidemic transmission. Demographic variables that were significantly different amongst those with previous infection versus those without infection included age, education level, and occupation. Behavioral and environmental variables significantly different amongst those in with previous infection to those without infection included taking animals for grazing, fishing, and recent village flooding. Experience of recent fever was also found to be a significant indicator of infection (p = 0.027). These results confirm alphavirus and flavivirus exposure in western Kenya, while illustrating significantly higher alphavirus transmission compared to previous studies. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alphavirus#Alphavirus Infections#Antibodies, Viral#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Flavivirus#Flavivirus Infections#Humans#Kenya#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Rural Population#Serologic Tests#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite recent reductions in prevalence, China still faces a substantial tuberculosis (TB) burden, with future progress dependent on the ability of rural providers to appropriately detect and refer TB patients for further care. This study (a) provides a baseline assessment of the ability of rural providers to correctly manage presumptive TB cases; (b) measures the gap between provider knowledge and practice and; (c) evaluates how ongoing reforms of China\'s health system-characterized by a movement toward "integrated care" and promotion of initial contact with grassroots providers-will affect the care of TB patients.METHODS/FINDINGS: Unannounced standardized patients (SPs) presenting with classic pulmonary TB symptoms were deployed in 3 provinces of China in July 2015. The SPs successfully completed 274 interactions across all 3 tiers of China\'s rural health system, interacting with providers in 46 village clinics, 207 township health centers, and 21 county hospitals. Interactions between providers and standardized patients were assessed against international and national standards of TB care. Using a lenient definition of correct management as at least a referral, chest X-ray or sputum test, 41% (111 of 274) SPs were correctly managed. Although there were no cases of empirical anti-TB treatment, antibiotics unrelated to the treatment of TB were prescribed in 168 of 274 interactions or 61.3% (95% CI: 55%-67%). Correct management proportions significantly higher at county hospitals compared to township health centers (OR 0.06, 95% CI: 0.01-0.25, p<0.001) and village clinics (OR 0.02, 95% CI: 0.0-0.17, p<0.001). Correct management in tests of knowledge administered to the same 274 physicians for the same case was 45 percentage points (95% CI: 37%-53%) higher with 24 percentage points (95% CI: -33% to -15%) fewer antibiotic prescriptions. Relative to the current system, where patients can choose to bypass any level of care, simulations suggest that a system of managed referral with gatekeeping at the level of village clinics would reduce proportions of correct management from 41% to 16%, while gatekeeping at the level of the township hospital would retain correct management close to current levels at 37%. The main limitations of the study are 2-fold. First, we evaluate the management of a one-time new patient presenting with presumptive TB, which may not reflect how providers manage repeat patients or more complicated TB presentations. Second, simulations under alternate policies require behavioral and statistical assumptions that should be addressed in future applications of this method.CONCLUSIONS: There were significant quality deficits among village clinics and township health centers in the management of a classic case of presumptive TB, with higher proportions of correct case management in county hospitals. Poor clinical performance does not arise only from a lack of knowledge, a phenomenon known as the "know-do" gap. Given significant deficits in quality of care, reforms encouraging first contact with lower tiers of the health system can improve efficiency only with concomitant improvements in appropriate management of presumptive TB patients in village clinics and township health centers. labels: #China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Health Care#Referral and Consultation#Rural Health#Rural Population#Tuberculosis'
b'BACKGROUND: Transpulmonary thermodilution (TPTD) is used to derive cardiac output CO, global end-diastolic volume GEDV and extravascular lung water EVLW. To facilitate interpretation of these data, several ratios have been developed, including pulmonary vascular permeability index (defined as EVLW/(0.25*GEDV)) and global ejection fraction ((4*stroke volume)/GEDV). PVPI and GEF have been associated to the aetiology of pulmonary oedema and systolic cardiac function, respectively. Several studies demonstrated that the use of femoral venous access results in a marked overestimation of GEDV. This also falsely reduces PVPI and GEF. One of these studies suggested a correction formula for femoral venous access that markedly reduced the bias for GEDV. Consequently, the last PiCCO-algorithm requires information about the CVC, and correction for femoral access has been shown. However, two recent studies demonstrated inconsistencies of the last PiCCO algorithm using incorrected GEDV for PVPI, but corrected GEDV for GEF. Nevertheless, these studies were based on mathematical analyses of data displayed in a total of 15 patients equipped with only a femoral, but not with a jugular CVC. Therefore, this study compared PVPI_fem and GEF_fem derived from femoral TPTD to values derived from jugular indicator injection in 25 patients with both jugular and femoral CVCs.METHODS: 54 datasets in 25 patients were recorded. Each dataset consisted of three triplicate TPTDs using the jugular venous access as the gold standard and the femoral access with (PVPI_fem_cor) and without (PVPI_fem_uncor) information about the femoral indicator injection to evaluate, if correction for femoral GEDV pertains to PVPI_fem and GEF_fem.RESULTS: PVPI_fem_uncor was significantly lower than PVPI_jug (1.48\xc2\xb10.47 vs. 1.84\xc2\xb10.53; p<0.001). Similarly, PVPI_fem_cor was significantly lower than PVPI_jug (1.49\xc2\xb10.46 vs. 1.84\xc2\xb10.53; p<0.001). This is explained by the finding that PVPI_fem_uncor was not different to PVPI_fem_cor (1.48\xc2\xb10.47 vs. 1.49\xc2\xb10.46; n.s.). This clearly suggests that correction for femoral CVC does not pertain to PVPI. GEF_fem_uncor was significantly lower than GEF_jug (20.6\xc2\xb15.1% vs. 25.0\xc2\xb16.1%; p<0.001). By contrast, GEF_fem_cor was not different to GEF_jug (25.6\xc2\xb15.8% vs. 25.0\xc2\xb16.1%; n.s.). Furthermore, GEF_fem_cor was significantly higher than GEF_fem_uncor (25.6\xc2\xb15.8% vs. 20.6\xc2\xb15.1%; p<0.001). This finding emphasizes that an appropriate correction for femoral CVC is applied to GEF_fem_cor. The extent of the correction (25.5/20.6; 124%) for GEF and the relation of PVPI_jug/PVPI_fem_uncor (1.84/1.48; 124%) are in the same range as the ratio of GEDVI_fem_uncor/GEDVI_fem_cor (1056ml/m2/821mL/m2; 129%). This further emphasizes that GEF, but not PVPI is corrected in case of femoral indicator injection.CONCLUSIONS: Femoral indicator injection for TPTD results in significantly lower values for PVPI and GEF. While the last PiCCO algorithm appropriately corrects GEF, the correction is not applied to PVPI. Therefore, GEF-values can be used in case of femoral CVC, but PVPI-values are substantially underestimated. labels: #Aged#Capillary Permeability#Cardiac Output#Catheterization, Central Venous#Contrast Media#Extravascular Lung Water#Female#Femoral Vein#Heart#Humans#Injections, Intravenous#Intensive Care Units#Jugular Veins#Liver Cirrhosis#Lung#Middle Aged#Monitoring, Physiologic#Prospective Studies#Pulmonary Edema#Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Adult#Sepsis#Stroke Volume#Thermodilution'
b"Based on cohort data obtained from 13,085 college freshmen's (2005 to 2011) SCL-90 (the Symptom Check-List-90) reports and their subsequent 4-year psychological counseling help-seeking records, this study examined the association between college students' mental health problems and help-seeking behaviors across four college years. Female students' mental health problems and help-seeking behaviors increased from the 2005 to the 2011 cohorts and no changes emerged for male students across cohorts. Overall, male students reported higher levels of mental health problems than did female students in the first college year, whereas female students reported more help-seeking behaviors than did male students in the following four college years. College students' mental health problems was associated positively with help-seeking behaviors. College students were more likely to seek help from the college psychological counselling center when they experienced relatively few or quite a lot of mental health issues (i.e., an inversed U shape). Implications for future studies and practices are discussed. labels: #Adolescent#China#Cohort Studies#Counseling#Female#Help-Seeking Behavior#Humans#Male#Mental Disorders#Mental Health#Patient Acceptance of Health Care#Psychotherapy#Students#Surveys and Questionnaires#Universities#Young Adult"
b'The majority of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), an organ-specific autoimmune disease, harbor autoantibodies that attack the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR-Abs) at the neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscles, resulting in muscle weakness. Single cell manipulation technologies coupled with genetic engineering are very powerful tools to examine T cell and B cell repertoires and the dynamics of adaptive immunity. These tools have been utilized to develop mAbs in parallel with hybridomas, phage display technologies and B-cell immortalization. By applying a single cell technology and novel high-throughput cell-based binding assays, we identified peripheral B cells that produce pathogenic nAChR-Abs in patients with MG. Although anti-nAChR antibodies produced by individual peripheral B cells generally exhibited low binding affinity for the \xce\xb1-subunit of the nAChR and great sequence diversity, a small fraction of these antibodies bound with high affinity to native-structured nAChRs on cell surfaces. B12L, one such Ab isolated here, competed with a rat Ab (mAb35) for binding to the human nAChR and thus considered to recognize the main immunogenic region (MIR). By evaluating the Ab in in vitro cell-based assays and an in vivo rat passive transfer model, B12L was found to act as a pathogenic Ab in rodents and presumably in humans.These findings suggest that B cells in peripheral blood may impact MG pathogenicity. Our methodology can be applied not only to validate pathogenic Abs as molecular target of MG treatment, but also to discover and analyze Ab production systems in other human diseases. labels: #Adoptive Transfer#Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Autoantibodies#B-Lymphocytes#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Hybridomas#Myasthenia Gravis#Primary Cell Culture#Protein Subunits#Rats#Receptors, Nicotinic#Single-Cell Analysis'
b"BACKGROUND: For the first time, differential attraction of pathogen vectors to vertebrate animals is investigated for novel repellents which when applied to preferred host animals turn them into non-hosts thereby providing a new paradigm for innovative vector control. For effectively controlling tsetse flies (Glossina spp.), vectors of African trypanosomosis, causing nagana, repellents more powerful than plant derived, from a non-host animal the waterbuck, Kobus ellipsiprymnus defassa, have recently been identified. Here we investigate these repellents in the field to protect cattle from nagana by making cattle as unattractive as the buck.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To dispense the waterbuck repellents comprising guaiacol, geranylacetone, pentanoic acid and \xce\xb4-octalactone, (patent application) we developed an innovative collar-mounted release system for individual cattle. We tested protecting cattle, under natural tsetse challenge, from tsetse transmitted nagana in a large field trial comprising 1,100 cattle with repellent collars in Kenya for 24 months. The collars provided substantial protection to livestock from trypanosome infection by reducing disease levels>80%. Protected cattle were healthier, showed significantly reduced disease levels, higher packed cell volume and significantly increased weight. Collars>60% reduced trypanocide use, 72.7% increase in ownership of oxen per household and enhanced traction power (protected animals ploughed 66% more land than unprotected). Land under cultivation increased by 73.4%. Increase in traction power of protected animals reduced by 69.1% acres tilled by hand per household per ploughing season. Improved food security and household income from very high acceptance of collars (99%) motivated the farmers to form a registered community based organization promoting collars for integrated tsetse control and their commercialization.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Clear demonstration that repellents from un-preferred hosts prevent contact between host and vector, thereby preventing disease transmission: a new paradigm for vector control. Evidence that deploying water buck repellents converts cattle into non-hosts for tsetse flies-'cows in waterbuck clothing'. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#Antelopes#Cattle#Cattle Diseases#Insect Repellents#Insect Vectors#Kenya#Odorants#Trypanosomiasis, African#Tsetse Flies"
b'BACKGROUND: Intensive blood pressure (BP) treatment can avert cardiovascular disease (CVD) events but can cause some serious adverse events. We sought to develop and validate risk models for predicting absolute risk difference (increased risk or decreased risk) for CVD events and serious adverse events from intensive BP therapy. A secondary aim was to test if the statistical method of elastic net regularization would improve the estimation of risk models for predicting absolute risk difference, as compared to a traditional backwards variable selection approach.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Cox models were derived from SPRINT trial data and validated on ACCORD-BP trial data to estimate risk of CVD events and serious adverse events; the models included terms for intensive BP treatment and heterogeneous response to intensive treatment. The Cox models were then used to estimate the absolute reduction in probability of CVD events (benefit) and absolute increase in probability of serious adverse events (harm) for each individual from intensive treatment. We compared the method of elastic net regularization, which uses repeated internal cross-validation to select variables and estimate coefficients in the presence of collinearity, to a traditional backwards variable selection approach. Data from 9,069 SPRINT participants with complete data on covariates were utilized for model development, and data from 4,498 ACCORD-BP participants with complete data were utilized for model validation. Participants were exposed to intensive (goal systolic pressure<120 mm Hg) versus standard (<140 mm Hg) treatment. Two composite primary outcome measures were evaluated: (i) CVD events/deaths (myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndrome, stroke, congestive heart failure, or CVD death), and (ii) serious adverse events (hypotension, syncope, electrolyte abnormalities, bradycardia, or acute kidney injury/failure). The model for CVD chosen through elastic net regularization included interaction terms suggesting that older age, black race, higher diastolic BP, and higher lipids were associated with greater CVD risk reduction benefits from intensive treatment, while current smoking was associated with fewer benefits. The model for serious adverse events chosen through elastic net regularization suggested that male sex, current smoking, statin use, elevated creatinine, and higher lipids were associated with greater risk of serious adverse events from intensive treatment. SPRINT participants in the highest predicted benefit subgroup had a number needed to treat (NNT) of 24 to prevent 1 CVD event/death over 5 years (absolute risk reduction [ARR] = 0.042, 95% CI: 0.018, 0.066; P = 0.001), those in the middle predicted benefit subgroup had a NNT of 76 (ARR = 0.013, 95% CI: -0.0001, 0.026; P = 0.053), and those in the lowest subgroup had no significant risk reduction (ARR = 0.006, 95% CI: -0.007, 0.018; P = 0.71). Those in the highest predicted harm subgroup had a number needed to harm (NNH) of 27 to induce 1 serious adverse event (absolute risk increase [ARI]= 0.038, 95% CI: 0.014, 0.061; P = 0.002), those in the middle predicted harm subgroup had a NNH of 41 (ARI = 0.025, 95% CI: 0.012, 0.038; P<0.001), and those in the lowest subgroup had no significant risk increase (ARI = -0.007, 95% CI: -0.043, 0.030; P = 0.72). In ACCORD-BP, participants in the highest subgroup of predicted benefit had significant absolute CVD risk reduction, but the overall ACCORD-BP participant sample was skewed towards participants with less predicted benefit and more predicted risk than in SPRINT. The models chosen through traditional backwards selection had similar ability to identify absolute risk difference for CVD as the elastic net models, but poorer ability to correctly identify absolute risk difference for serious adverse events. A key limitation of the analysis is the limited sample size of the ACCORD-BP trial, which expanded confidence intervals for ARI among persons with type 2 diabetes. Additionally, it is not possible to mechanistically explain the physiological relationships explaining the heterogeneous treatment effects captured by the models, since the study was an observational secondary data analysis.CONCLUSIONS: We found that predictive models could help identify subgroups of participants in both SPRINT and ACCORD-BP who had lower versus higher ARRs in CVD events/deaths with intensive BP treatment, and participants who had lower versus higher ARIs in serious adverse events. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antihypertensive Agents#Blood Pressure#Female#Heart Failure#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Proportional Hazards Models#Risk Factors#Stroke#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Mitral regurgitation in people without prior cardiac disease is considered a degenerative disease with no established risk factors for its prevention. We aimed to test the hypothesis that elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP) across its usual spectrum is associated with higher risk of mitral regurgitation.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used linked electronic health records from the United Kingdom Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) from 1 January 1990 to 31 December 2015. CPRD covers approximately 7% of the current UK population and is broadly representative of the population by age, sex, and ethnicity. About 5.5 million UK patients with no known cardiovascular or valve disease at baseline were included in this cohort study. We investigated the relationship between blood pressure (BP) and risk of mitral regurgitation using Cox regression models. Our primary exposure variable was SBP and our primary outcome was incident reports of mitral regurgitation, which were identified from hospital discharge reports or primary care records. Of the 5,553,984 patients in the CPRD that met our inclusion criteria, during the 10-year follow-up period, 28,655 (0.52%) were diagnosed with mitral regurgitation and a further 1,262 (0.02%) were diagnosed with mitral stenosis. SBP was continuously related to the risk of mitral regurgitation with no evidence of a nadir down to 115 mmHg (p<0.001). Each 20 mmHg increment in SBP was associated with a 26% higher risk of mitral regurgitation (hazard ratio [HR] 1.26; CI 1.23, 1.29). The observed association was partially mediated by diseases affecting the left ventricle during follow-up (myocardial infarction [MI], ischaemic heart disease [IHD], cardiomyopathy, and heart failure). However, the percentage of excess risk mediated (PERM) by these proximate causes of secondary mitral regurgitation was only 13% (CI 6.1%, 20%), and accounting for them had little effect on the long-term association between SBP and mitral regurgitation (mediator-adjusted HR 1.22; CI 1.20, 1.25; p<0.001). Associations were similar for each 10 mmHg increment in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (p<0.001) or each 15 mmHg increment in pulse pressure (PP) (p<0.001). By contrast, there was no association between SBP and risk of mitral stenosis (HR per 20 mmHg higher SBP 1.03; CI 0.93, 1.14; p = 0.58). These analyses are based on routinely collected data from health records which may be sensitive to measurement errors, and the observed associations may not be generalizable to less severe and subclinical cases of mitral regurgitation.CONCLUSIONS: Long-term exposure to elevated BP across its whole spectrum is associated with an increased risk of primary and secondary mitral regurgitation. These findings suggest that BP control may be of importance in the prevention of mitral regurgitation. labels: #Adult#Aged#Blood Pressure#Cohort Studies#Female#Heart Failure#Humans#Hypertension#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Mitral Valve Insufficiency#Myocardial Infarction#Risk Factors#Stroke#United Kingdom'
b'The Rnd family of proteins, Rnd1, Rnd2 and Rnd3, are atypical Rho family GTPases, which bind to but do not hydrolyse GTP. They interact with plexins, which are receptors for semaphorins, and are hypothesised to regulate plexin signalling. We recently showed that each Rnd protein has a distinct profile of interaction with three plexins, Plexin-B1, Plexin-B2 and Plexin-B3, in mammalian cells, although it is unclear which region(s) of these plexins contribute to this specificity. Here we characterise the binary interactions of the Rnd proteins with the Rho-binding domain (RBD) of Plexin-B1 and Plexin-B2 using biophysical approaches. Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) experiments for each of the Rnd proteins with Plexin-B1-RBD and Plexin-B2-RBD showed similar association constants for all six interactions, although Rnd1 displayed a small preference for Plexin-B1-RBD and Rnd3 for Plexin-B2-RBD. Furthermore, mutagenic analysis of Rnd3 suggested similarities in its interaction with both Plexin-B1-RBD and Plexin-B2-RBD. These results suggest that Rnd proteins do not have a clear-cut specificity for different Plexin-B-RBDs, possibly implying the contribution of additional regions of Plexin-B proteins in conferring functional substrate selection. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Binding Sites#COS Cells#Calorimetry#Cercopithecus aethiops#Cloning, Molecular#Escherichia coli#Gene Expression#Kinetics#Mutation#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neural Cell Adhesion Molecules#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Receptors, Cell Surface#Recombinant Proteins#Sequence Alignment#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Substrate Specificity#Thermodynamics#rho GTP-Binding Proteins'
b'Tropical forest fragmentation creates insular biological communities that undergo species loss and changes in community composition over time, due to area- and edge-effects. Woody lianas thrive in degraded and secondary forests, due to their competitive advantage over trees in these habitats. Lianas compete both directly and indirectly with trees, increasing tree mortality and turnover. Despite our growing understanding of liana-tree dynamics, we lack detailed knowledge of the assemblage-level responses of lianas themselves to fragmentation, particularly in evergreen tropical forests. We examine the responses of both sapling and mature liana communities to landscape-scale forest insularization induced by a mega hydroelectric dam in the Brazilian Amazon. Detailed field inventories were conducted on islands created during reservoir filling, and in nearby mainland continuous forest. We assess the relative importance of variables associated with habitat fragmentation such as area, isolation, surrounding forest cover, fire and wind disturbance, on liana community attributes including abundance, basal area, diversity, and composition. We also explore patterns of liana dominance relative to tree saplings and adults \xe2\x89\xa510 cm diameter at breast height. We find that 1) liana community composition remains remarkably similar across mainland continuous forest and islands, regardless of extreme area- and edge- effects and the loss of vertebrate dispersers in the latter; and 2) lianas are increasing in dominance relative to trees in the sapling layer in the most degraded islands, with both the amount of forest cover surrounding islands and fire disturbance history predicting liana dominance. Our data suggest that liana communities persist intact in isolated forests, regardless of extreme area- and edge-effects; while in contrast, tree communities simultaneously show evidence of increased turnover and supressed recruitment. These processes may lead to lianas becoming a dominant component of this dam-induced fragmented landscape in the future, due to their competitive advantage over trees in degraded forest habitats. Additional loss of tree biomass and diversity brought about through competition with lianas, and the concurrent loss of carbon storage, should be accounted for in impact assessments of future dam development. labels: #Biomass#Brazil#Conservation of Natural Resources#Ecosystem#Forests#Humans#Plant Weeds#Power Plants#Rivers#Species Specificity#Trees#Tropical Climate'
b'BACKGROUND: The South-to-North Water Diversion (SNWD) project is designed to channel fresh water from the Yangtze River north to more industrialized parts of China. An important question is whether future climate change and dispersal via the SNWD may synergistically favor a northward expansion of species involved in hosting and transmitting schistosomiasis in China, specifically the intermediate host, Oncomelania hupensis.METHODOLOGY/ PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, climate spaces occupied by the four subspecies of O. hupensis (O. h. hupensis, O. h. robertsoni, O. h. guangxiensis and O. h. tangi) were estimated, and niche conservatism tested among each pair of subspecies. Fine-tuned Maxent (fMaxent) and ensemble models were used to anticipate potential distributions of O. hupensis under future climate change scenarios. We were largely unable to reject the null hypothesis that climatic niches are conserved among the four subspecies, so factors other than climate appear to account for the divergence of O. hupensis populations across mainland China. Both model approaches indicated increased suitability and range expansion in O. h. hupensis in the future; an eastward and northward shift in O. h. robertsioni and O. h. guangxiensis, respectively; and relative distributional stability in O. h. gangi.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The southern parts of the Central Route of SNWD will coincide with suitable areas for O. h. hupensis in 2050-2060; its suitable areas will also expand northward along the southern parts of the Eastern Route by 2080-2090. Our results call for rigorous monitoring and surveillance of schistosomiasis along the southern Central Route and Eastern Route of the SNWD in a future, warmer China. labels: #Animal Distribution#Animals#China#Climate Change#Risk Factors#Schistosoma japonicum#Schistosomiasis japonica#Snails'
b'Investigating the pleiotropic effects of genetic variants can increase statistical power, provide important information to achieve deep understanding of the complex genetic structures of disease, and offer powerful tools for designing effective treatments with fewer side effects. However, the current multiple phenotype association analysis paradigm lacks breadth (number of phenotypes and genetic variants jointly analyzed at the same time) and depth (hierarchical structure of phenotype and genotypes). A key issue for high dimensional pleiotropic analysis is to effectively extract informative internal representation and features from high dimensional genotype and phenotype data. To explore correlation information of genetic variants, effectively reduce data dimensions, and overcome critical barriers in advancing the development of novel statistical methods and computational algorithms for genetic pleiotropic analysis, we proposed a new statistic method referred to as a quadratically regularized functional CCA (QRFCCA) for association analysis which combines three approaches: (1) quadratically regularized matrix factorization, (2) functional data analysis and (3) canonical correlation analysis (CCA). Large-scale simulations show that the QRFCCA has a much higher power than that of the ten competing statistics while retaining the appropriate type 1 errors. To further evaluate performance, the QRFCCA and ten other statistics are applied to the whole genome sequencing dataset from the TwinsUK study. We identify a total of 79 genes with rare variants and 67 genes with common variants significantly associated with the 46 traits using QRFCCA. The results show that the QRFCCA substantially outperforms the ten other statistics. labels: #Algorithms#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Databases, Genetic#Genetic Pleiotropy#Genome-Wide Association Study#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Models, Statistical#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Principal Component Analysis#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b"The present study investigated the parameters of nocturnal sleep that mediate the relationship between morningness-eveningness preference and the sleep architecture of naps in university students. This study had a cross-sectional, descriptive correlational design. The sleep architecture of 52 students invited to take an afternoon nap in the laboratory was recorded. The morningness-eveningness questionnaire (MEQ) was used to evaluate morningness-eveningness preference. An actigraph was used to collect students' nighttime sleep data in the week preceding the study. Polysomnography was used to measure the sleep architecture of the participants' naps. After adjustments for potential factors, although the MEQ did not directly correlate with the percentage of sleep stages in naps, the effects of the MEQ on the percentage of Stage 1 sleep, slow-wave sleep, and rapid eye movement sleep; sleep duration; and sleep efficiency of naps were mediated by the total sleep time in the preceding week. This preliminary study suggests that nap quality was affected by morningness-eveningness preference through the mediation of total nocturnal sleep time. Therefore, future studies should be carefully designed to consider nighttime sleep patterns when analyzing the effects of chronotypes on daytime sleep. labels: #Adolescent#Circadian Rhythm#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Photoperiod#Polysomnography#Sleep Stages#Students#Surveys and Questionnaires#Universities#Wakefulness#Young Adult"
b'INTRODUCTION: Evidence on personality traits change implies it should be studied as an outcome and not only as an explanatory effect. Therefore, we aimed to assess how personality and academic achievement sway each other. Three cohorts of medical students (n = 181) comprised of school leavers and graduates, completed NEO-FFI when admitted (baseline) and later on medical training (follow-up). Previous achievement was measured as mean scores on national school examinations, and academic achievement as medical course average. Causal relations were studied by cross-lagged analysis.RESULTS: Cross-sectional analysis at baseline showed differences between graduates and school leavers on personality, with graduates scoring lower on neuroticism (\xce\xb2 = -12.344, p<0.001), and higher on openness to experience (\xce\xb2 = 5.257, p<0.001), conscientiousness (\xce\xb2 = 2.345, p = 0.004,) and agreeableness (\xce\xb2 = 6.993, p<0.001). Longitudinal analyses indicated that personality traits and achievement tracked over time. Cross-lagged analysis found a positive significant association between academic achievement and neuroticism at baseline (\xce\xb2 = 0.031, p = 0.014) and with being a graduate student (\xce\xb2 = 0.766, p = 0.006). After adjusting, no association was found between previous achievement and personality at follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: Some neuroticism may enhance medical academic achievement. The blurring of the initial differences between graduates and school leavers suggests a reasonable possibility of personality traits change along the medical course. Future research on medical selection processes cannot afford to ignore the influence of the medical school environment on personality traits change. labels: #Adult#Anxiety Disorders#Consciousness#Cooperative Behavior#Cross-Sectional Studies#Educational Status#Female#Humans#Male#Neuroticism#Personality#Personality Inventory#Portugal#Psychometrics#Students, Medical'
b'INTRODUCTION: Acute kidney injury (AKI) increases the risk of death in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients. Intravenous thrombolytic therapy (iv. rt-PA) seems to be the most effective treatment for AIS patients. The effects of AKI on iv. rt-PA treated AIS cases is less studied. Our paper addresses this issue.METHODS: 45 consecutive stroke patients treated with iv. rt-PA (median age = 64 years; 29 male) and 59 age and sex matched controls not eligible for iv. rt-PA have been enrolled in our study. Subjects were followed-up until hospital release or death (median follow up time = 12 days).RESULTS: The prevalence of AKI did not differ between iv. rt-PA treated patients and controls (35.5% vs. 33.89%). In both groups, AKI was associated with increased in-hospital mortality: 50.0% vs. 3.4% p<0.0001 (in the rt-PA treated), and 45% vs. 30.7% (in controls). AKI iv. rt-PA treated patients had a significantly higher risk of in hospital mortality as compared to the no-AKI iv. rt-PA treated (HR = 15.2 (95%CI [1.87 to 124.24]; P = 0.011). In a Cox-multivariate model, the presence of AKI after iv. rt-PA remained a significant factor (HR = 8.354; p = 0.041) influencing the in-hospital mortality even after correction for other confounding factors. The independent predictors for AKI were: decreased eGFR baseline and elevated serum levels of uric acid at admission, (the model explained 60.2% of the AKI development).CONCLUSIONS: The risk of AKI was increased in AIS patients. Thrombolysis itself did not increase the risk of AKI. In the iv. rt-PA patients, as compared to non-AKI, those which developed AKI had a higher rate of in-hospital mortality. The baseline eGFR and the serum uric acid at admission were independent predictors for AKI development in the iv. rt-PA treated AIS patients. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Administration, Intravenous#Aged#Biomarkers#Brain Ischemia#Female#Fibrinolytic Agents#Glomerular Filtration Rate#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Discharge#Prospective Studies#Stroke#Survival Analysis#Thrombolytic Therapy#Tissue Plasminogen Activator#Treatment Outcome#Uric Acid'
b"Bacteria cells are protected from osmotic and environmental stresses by an exoskeleton-like polymeric structure called peptidoglycan (PG) or murein sacculus. This structure is fundamental for bacteria's viability and thus, the mechanisms underlying cell wall assembly and how it is modulated serve as targets for many of our most successful antibiotics. Therefore, it is now more important than ever to understand the genetics and structural chemistry of the bacterial cell walls in order to find new and effective methods of blocking it for the treatment of disease. In the last decades, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry have been demonstrated to provide the required resolution and sensitivity to characterize the fine chemical structure of PG. However, the large volume of data sets that can be produced by these instruments today are difficult to handle without a proper data analysis workflow. Here, we present PG-metrics, a chemometric based pipeline that allows fast and easy classification of bacteria according to their muropeptide chromatographic profiles and identification of the subjacent PG chemical variability between e.g. bacterial species, growth conditions and, mutant libraries. The pipeline is successfully validated here using PG samples from different bacterial species and mutants in cell wall proteins. The obtained results clearly demonstrated that PG-metrics pipeline is a valuable bioanalytical tool that can lead us to cell wall classification and biomarker discovery. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacteria#Cell Wall#Chromatography, Liquid#Mass Spectrometry#Microbial Viability#Models, Theoretical#Osmotic Pressure#Peptidoglycan#Principal Component Analysis#Receptors, Pattern Recognition"
b"Social exclusion has many effects on individuals, including the increased need to belong and elevated sensitivity to social information. Using a self-reporting method, and an eye-tracking technique, this study explored people's need to belong and attentional bias towards the socio-emotional information (pictures of positive and negative facial expressions compared to those of emotionally-neutral expressions) after experiencing a brief episode of social exclusion. We found that: (1) socially-excluded individuals reported higher negative emotions, lower positive emotions, and stronger need to belong than those who were not socially excluded; (2) compared to a control condition, social exclusion caused a longer response time to probe dots after viewing positive or negative face images; (3) social exclusion resulted in a higher frequency ratio of first attentional fixation on both positive and negative emotional facial pictures (but not on the neutral pictures) than the control condition; (4) in the social exclusion condition, participants showed shorter first fixation latency and longer first fixation duration to positive pictures than neutral ones but this effect was not observed for negative pictures; (5) participants who experienced social exclusion also showed longer gazing duration on the positive pictures than those who did not; although group differences also existed for the negative pictures, the gaze duration bias from both groups showed no difference from chance. This study demonstrated the emotional response to social exclusion as well as characterising multiple eye-movement indicators of attentional bias after experiencing social exclusion. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Attentional Bias#Emotions#Eye Movements#Facial Expression#Female#Humans#Male#Reaction Time#Social Behavior"
b'Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) have been consider as a promising therapy in fibrotic diseases. Experimental models suggest that BMMSCs may be used as an alternative therapy to treat chemical- or physical-induced pulmonary fibrosis. We investigated the anti-fibrotic potential of BMMSCs in an experimental model of lung fibrosis by infection with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. BMMSCs were isolated and purified from BALB/c mice using standardized methods. BALB/c male mice were inoculated by intranasal infection of 1.5x106 P. brasiliensis yeasts. Then, 1x106 BMMSCs were administered intra venous at 8th week post-infection (p.i.). An additional group of mice was treated with itraconazole (ITC) two weeks before BMMSCs administration. Animals were sacrificed at 12th week p.i. Histopathological examination, fibrocytes counts, soluble collagen and fibrosis-related genes expression in lungs were evaluated. Additionally, human fibroblasts were treated with homogenized lung supernatants (HLS) to determine induction of collagen expression. Histological analysis showed an increase of granulomatous inflammatory areas in BMMSCs-treated mice. A significant increase of fibrocytes count, soluble collagen and collagen-3\xce\xb11, TGF-\xce\xb23, MMP-8 and MMP-15 genes expression were also observed in those mice. Interestingly, when combined therapy BMMSCs/ITC was used there is a decrease of TIMP-1 and MMP-13 gene expression in infected mice. Finally, human fibroblasts stimulated with HLS from infected and BMMSCs-transplanted mice showed a higher expression of collagen I. In conclusion, our findings indicate that late infusion of BMMSCs into mice infected with P. brasiliensis does not have any anti-fibrotic effect; possibly because their interaction with the fungus promotes collagen expression and tissue remodeling. labels: #Animals#Bone Marrow Cells#Disease Models, Animal#Fibrosis#Lung Diseases, Fungal#Male#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Paracoccidioidomycosis#Pulmonary Fibrosis'
b'In this retrospective cross-sectional study, we quantitatively analyzed the tomographic features in the neural tissues around the optic disc in patients with diabetic retinopathy with and without panretinal photocoagulation. We analyzed 206 eyes, comprising 33 normal eyes in subjects without diabetes (group I), 30 eyes without diabetic retinopathy (group II), 66 eyes with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (group III), 45 eyes with panretinal photocoagulation (group IV), and 32 eyes with normal tension glaucoma (group V). Sequential images acquired using swept-source optical coherence tomography in three-dimensional mode were used to measure peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, neuro-retinal rim thickness, anterior lamina cribrosa depth, prelaminar thickness, and thickness of the lamina cribrosa. The peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and lamina cribrosa thickness were significantly thinner in group IV than in group III (p = 0.019 and p<0.001). However, there was no significant difference in rim thickness, anterior lamina cribrosa depth, or prelaminar thickness between groups III and IV (p = 0.307, p = 0.877, and p = 0.212). Multivariate analysis revealed that time since panretinal photocoagulation and thickness of the lamina cribrosa had a significant effect on peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (p<0.001 and p = 0.014). In group IV, there was a negative correlation between time elapsed since panretinal photocoagulation and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, rim thickness, and thickness of the lamina cribrosa (r = -0.765, r = -0.490, and r = -0.419), but no correlation with prelaminar thickness or anterior lamina cribrosa depth (r = 0.104 and r = -0.171). Panretinal photocoagulation may be related to thinning of the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer, rim thickness, and lamina cribrosa, but not prelaminar thickness or anterior lamina cribrosa depth. These features are different from the peripapillary features of eyes with typical normal tension glaucoma. labels: #Aged#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Optic Disk#Retina#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Tumour budding and podia formation are well-appreciated in surgical pathology as an aggressive invasion phenotype of colorectal carcinoma cells that is attained in the microenvironment of the invasive margin. In this study, we addressed how tumour budding and podia formation feature in xenografts. Primary colorectal carcinomas (N = 44) of various molecular types (sporadic standard type, high-degree microsatellite-unstable, CpG island methylator phenotype) were transplanted subcutaneously into T and B cell-deficient NSG mice, making possible immunohistochemistry with routine surgical pathology antibodies. Tumor budding and podia formation were both appreciably present in the xenografts. Quantitative evaluations of cytokeratin immunostains of primaries and their corresponding xenografts showed a reduction of tumour buds in the xenografts. Furthermore, in xenografts tumour cells were completely negative by pSTAT3 immunohistochemistry, indicating absence of cytokine/chemokine signalling, but nuclear \xce\xb2-catenin and SMAD4 immunostainings as read-out of wnt and BMP pathway activation, respectively, were maintained. Carcinoma cells in most xenografts retained immunostaining of at least some nuclei by immunohistochemistry with antibodies against pERK1/2. K-ras/B-raf mutational status did not correlate with tumour budding or podia formation in the xenografts. Our results indicate that tumour budding and podia formation can be modelled by xenografting, and in NSG mice it can be studied with the same immunohistochemical methods as used for primaries in surgical pathology. Dysregulation of wnt and BMP signalling appears to be transferred into the xenograft microenvironment, but not cytokine/chemokine signalling. labels: #Animals#Colorectal Neoplasms#CpG Islands#DNA Methylation#Humans#Mice#Mutation#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Smad4 Protein#Stromal Cells#Tumor Microenvironment#Wnt Signaling Pathway#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays#beta Catenin'
b'The Min protein system creates a dynamic spatial pattern in Escherichia coli cells where the proteins MinD and MinE oscillate from pole to pole. MinD positions MinC, an inhibitor of FtsZ ring formation, contributing to the mid-cell localization of cell division. In this paper, Fourier analysis is used to decompose experimental and model MinD spatial distributions into time-dependent harmonic components. In both experiment and model, the second harmonic component is responsible for producing a mid-cell minimum in MinD concentration. The features of this harmonic are robust in both experiment and model. Fourier analysis reveals a close correspondence between the time-dependent behaviour of the harmonic components in the experimental data and model. Given this, each molecular species in the model was analysed individually. This analysis revealed that membrane-bound MinD dimer shows the mid-cell minimum with the highest contrast when averaged over time, carrying the strongest signal for positioning the cell division ring. This concurs with previous data showing that the MinD dimer binds to MinC inhibiting FtsZ ring formation. These results show that non-linear interactions of Min proteins are essential for producing the mid-cell positioning signal via the generation of second-order harmonic components in the time-dependent spatial protein distribution. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Bacterial Proteins#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Division#Cytoskeletal Proteins#Escherichia coli#Escherichia coli Proteins#Fourier Analysis#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Kinetics#Membrane Proteins#Nonlinear Dynamics#Protein Multimerization#Signal Transduction#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Hereditary thrombophilia (HT) is a genetic predisposition to thrombosis. Asian mutation spectrum of HT is different from Western ones. We investigated the incidence and clinical characteristics of HT in Korean patients with unprovoked venous thromboembolism (VTE).METHODS: Among 369 consecutive patients with thromboembolic event who underwent thrombophilia tests, we enrolled 222 patients diagnosed with unprovoked VTE. The presence of HT was confirmed by DNA sequencing of the genes that cause deficits in natural anticoagulants (NAs). Median follow-up duration was 40\xc2\xb138 months.RESULTS: Among the 222 patients with unprovoked VTE, 66 (29.7%) demonstrated decreased NA level, and 33 (14.9%) were finally confirmed to have HT in a genetic molecular test. Antithrombin III deficiency (6.3%) was most frequently detected, followed by protein C deficiency (5.4%), protein S deficiency (1.8%), and dysplasminogenemia (1.4%). The HT group was significantly younger (37 [32-50] vs. 52 [43-65]years; P<0.001) and had a higher proportion of male (69.7% vs. 47%; P = 0.013), more previous VTE events (57.6% vs. 31.7%; P = 0.004), and a greater family history of VTE (43.8% vs. 1.9%; P<0.001) than the non-HT group. Age<45 years and a family history of VTE were independent predictors for unprovoked VTE with HT (odds ratio, 9.435 [2.45-36.35]; P = 0.001 and 92.667 [14.95-574.29]; P<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: About 15% of patients with unprovoked VTE had HT. A positive family history of VTE and age<45 years were independent predictors for unprovoked VTE caused by HT. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antithrombin III#Antithrombin III Deficiency#Conjunctivitis#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Plasminogen#Protein C#Protein C Deficiency#Protein S#Protein S Deficiency#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Skin Diseases, Genetic#Thrombophilia#Venous Thromboembolism'
b'pyrE (STM3733) encodes orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRTase; EC 2.4.2.10), the fifth enzyme of the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway. We identified a \xce\x94pyrE mutant as under selection in screening of a Salmonella mutant library in 4-day old chicks. Here, we confirm that a \xce\x94pyrE mutant colonizes 4-day old chicks poorly in competitive infection with isogenic wild type, and that the ability of this mutant to colonize chicks could be restored by providing a copy of pyrE in trans. We further show that our \xce\x94pyrE mutant grows poorly in nutrient poor conditions in vitro, and that the ability of this mutant to grow is restored, both in vitro and in chicks, when precursors to the pyrimidine salvage pathway were provided. This finding suggests that the environment in the chick intestine during our infections lacks sufficient precursors of the pyrimidine salvage pathway to support Salmonella growth. Finally, we show that the colonization defect of a \xce\x94pyrE mutant during infection occurs in to chicks, but not in CBA/J mice or ligated ileal loops in calves. Our data suggest that de novo pyrimidine synthesis is necessary for colonization of Salmonella Typhimurium in the chick, and that the salvage pathway is not used in this niche. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Cattle#Chickens#Colony Count, Microbial#Gene Deletion#Gene Expression#Gene Library#Genetic Complementation Test#Host Specificity#Mice#Mice, Inbred CBA#Orotate Phosphoribosyltransferase#Poultry Diseases#Pyrimidines#Salmonella Infections, Animal#Salmonella typhimurium#Virulence Factors'
b'Antimicrobial resistance is a growing global concern in human and veterinary medicine, with an ever-increasing void in the arsenal of clinicians. Novel classes of compounds including carbon monoxoide-releasing molecules (CORMs), for example the light-activated metal complex [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br, could be used as alternatives/to supplement traditional antibacterials. Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) represent a large reservoir of antibiotic resistance and can cause serious clinical disease in poultry, with potential as zoonotic pathogens, due to shared serotypes and virulence factors with human pathogenic E. coli. The in vitro activity of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br against multidrug-resistant APECs was assessed via broth microtitre dilution assays and synergy testing with colistin performed using checkerboard and time-kill assays. In vivo antibacterial activity of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br alone and in combination with colistin was determined using the Galleria mellonella wax moth larvae model. Animals were monitored for life/death, melanisation and bacterial numbers enumerated from larval haemolymph. In vitro testing produced relatively high [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 1024 mg/L. However, its activity was significantly increased with the addition of colistin, bringing MICs down to \xe2\x89\xa432 mg/L. This synergy was confirmed in time-kill assays. In vivo assays showed that the combination of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br with colistin produced superior bacterial killing and significantly increased larval survival. In both in vitro and in vivo assays light activation was not required for antibacterial activity. This data supports further evaluation of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br as a potential agent for treatment of systemic infections in humans and animals, when used with permeabilising agents such as colistin. labels: #Animals#Anti-Infective Agents#Birds#Colistin#Drug Resistance, Multiple#Drug Synergism#Escherichia coli#Humans#Organometallic Compounds'
b"Polyphonic music files were analyzed using the set of symbols that produced the Minimal Entropy Description, which we call the Fundamental Scale. This allowed us to create a novel space to represent music pieces by developing: (a) a method to adjust a textual description from its original scale of observation to an arbitrarily selected scale, (b) a method to model the structure of any textual description based on the shape of the symbol frequency profiles, and (c) the concept of higher order entropy as the entropy associated with the deviations of a frequency-ranked symbol profile from a perfect Zipfian profile. We call this diversity index the '2nd Order Entropy'. Applying these methods to a variety of musical pieces showed how the space of 'symbolic specific diversity-entropy' and that of '2nd order entropy' captures characteristics that are unique to each music type, style, composer and genre. Some clustering of these properties around each musical category is shown. These methods allow us to visualize a historic trajectory of academic music across this space, from medieval to contemporary academic music. We show that the description of musical structures using entropy, symbol frequency profiles and specific symbolic diversity allows us to characterize traditional and popular expressions of music. These classification techniques promise to be useful in other disciplines for pattern recognition and machine learning. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Entropy#Humans#Information Storage and Retrieval#Markov Chains#Music#Natural Language Processing#Pattern Recognition, Automated#Pattern Recognition, Physiological"
b"Human babesiosis is caused by the apicomplexan parasite Babesia microti, which is of major public health concern in the United States and elsewhere, resulting in malaise and fatigue, followed by a fever and hemolytic anemia. In this paper we focus on the characterization of a novel B. microti thrombospondin domain (TSP1)-containing protein (BmP53) from the new annotation of the B. microti genome (locus 'BmR1_04g09041'). This novel protein (BmP53) had a single TSP1 and a transmembrane domain, with a short cytoplasmic tail containing a sub-terminal glutamine residue, but no signal peptide and Von Willebrand factor type A domains (VWA), which are found in classical thrombospondin-related adhesive proteins (TRAP). Co-localization assays of BmP53 and Babesia microti secreted antigen 1 (BmSA1) suggested that BmP53 might be a non-secretory membranous protein. Molecular mimicry between the TSP1 domain from BmP53 and host platelets molecules was indicated through different measures of sequence homology, phylogenetic analysis, 3D structure and shared epitopes. Indeed, hamster isolated platelets cross-reacted with mouse anti-BmP53-TSP1. Molecular mimicry are used to help parasites to escape immune defenses, resulting in immune evasion or autoimmunity. Furthermore, specific host reactivity was also detected against the TSP1-free part of BmP53 in infected hamster sera. In conclusion, the TSP1 domain mimicry might help in studying the mechanisms of parasite-induced thrombocytopenia, with the TSP1-free truncate of the protein representing a potential safe candidate for future vaccine studies. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Antigens, Protozoan#Babesia microti#Babesiosis#Binding Sites#Blood Platelets#Cloning, Molecular#Cricetulus#Erythrocytes#Escherichia coli#Gene Expression#Glutathione Transferase#Humans#Immune Evasion#Mice#Models, Molecular#Molecular Mimicry#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Protein Structure, Secondary#Protozoan Proteins#Recombinant Fusion Proteins#Sequence Alignment#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Thrombospondin 1"
b'Certificateless-based signcryption overcomes inherent shortcomings in traditional Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Key Escrow problem. It imparts efficient methods to design PKIs with public verifiability and cipher text authenticity with minimum dependency. As a classic primitive in public key cryptography, signcryption performs validity of cipher text without decryption by combining authentication, confidentiality, public verifiability and cipher text authenticity much more efficiently than the traditional approach. In this paper, we first define a security model for certificateless-based signcryption called, Complex Conjugate Differential Integrated Factor (CC-DIF) scheme by introducing complex conjugates through introduction of the security parameter and improving secured message distribution rate. However, both partial private key and secret value changes with respect to time. To overcome this weakness, a new certificateless-based signcryption scheme is proposed by setting the private key through Differential (Diff) Equation using an Integration Factor (DiffEIF), minimizing computational cost and communication overhead. The scheme is therefore said to be proven secure (i.e. improving the secured message distributing rate) against certificateless access control and signcryption-based scheme. In addition, compared with the three other existing schemes, the CC-DIF scheme has the least computational cost and communication overhead for secured message communication in mobile network. labels: #Algorithms#Computer Security#Confidentiality#Humans#Internet#Models, Theoretical#Telemedicine#Wireless Technology'
b'We investigated the effects of a vibratory stimulus on the plantar surface of the hind limb for motor, sensory, and locomotive function using a mouse cast model. The right knee joint of C57BL/6 male mice (7 weeks, 20 g, n = 31) was flexed with aluminum splint and tape for 6 weeks. These mice were randomly divided into 2 groups (control group, n = 11 and vibration group, n = 12). The mice in the vibration group received vibration on the sole of the ankle for 15 minutes per day, 5 days per week. After the knee joint cast was removed, we measured the range of motion (ROM) of both knee and ankle joints and the sensory threshold of the sole. Further, both walking and swimming movements were analyzed with a digital video. The sole vibration did not affect the passive ROM of the knee joint and sensory threshold after cast removal. However, it increased the ankle dorsiflexion range and improved free walking, swimming, and active movement of the knee joint. In conclusion, we show that the vibration recovered both walking and swimming movements, which resulted from improvements in both the passive ankle dorsiflexion and active knee movement. labels: #Animals#Ankle Joint#Biomechanical Phenomena#Hindlimb#Knee Joint#Locomotion#Mice#Range of Motion, Articular#Vibration#Walking'
b'Variation in longitudinal control in driving has been discussed in both traffic psychology and transportation engineering. Traffic psychologists have concerned themselves with "driving style", a habitual form of behavior marked by it\'s stability, and its basis in psychological traits. Those working in traffic microsimulation have searched for quantitative ways to represent different driver-car systems in car following models. There has been unfortunately little overlap or theoretical consistency between these literatures. Here, we investigated relationships between directly observable measures (time headway, acceleration and jerk) in a simulated driving task where the driving context, vehicle and environment were controlled. We found individual differences in the way a trade-off was made between close but jerky vs. far and smooth following behavior. We call these "intensive" and "calm" driving, and suggest this trade-off can serve as an indicator of a possible latent factor underlying driving style. We posit that pursuing such latent factors for driving style may have implications for modelling driver heterogeneity across various domains in traffic simulation. labels: #Acceleration#Accidents, Traffic#Adult#Automobile Driving#Computer Simulation#Female#Humans#Male#Reaction Time#Simulation Training'
b'PURPOSE: To identify ocular parameters corresponding to asymmetric visual field (VF) loss in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) through intereye comparisons.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Medical records of NTG patients with asymmetric and symmetric VF losses were retrospectively reviewed. The criterion for asymmetry in VF was 6 dB difference of mean deviation. Refractive error, intraocular pressure (IOP), central corneal thickness, ovality index, and peripapillary atrophy (PPA)/disc area ratio were obtained from each patient. Intereye comparison was performed for asymmetric group, symmetric group, and myopic and nonmyopic asymmetric subgroups.RESULTS: We included 155 patients; 110 patients in asymmetric group and 45 patients in symmetric group. In intereye comparison for total asymmetric group, refractive error (P = 0.006), initial IOP (P = 0.001), ovality index (P = 0.008), and PPA (P<0.001) were significantly asymmetric. For myopic subgroup, refractive error (P = 0.004), ovality index (P = 0.001), and PPA (P = 0.003) were significant factors. For nonmyopic subgroup, initial IOP (P = 0.003) and PPA (P = 0.007) were significant factors. Symmetric group showed no significant difference between the eyes. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that refractive error (P = 0.002) and PPA (P = 0.028) were significant factors in myopic subgroup, and initial IOP (P = 0.022) and PPA (P = 0.002) were significant factors in nonmyopic subgroup.CONCLUSIONS: In this intereye comparison, the more myopic eye in myopic NTG patient, and the more pressured eye in nonmyopic NTG patient demonstrated more severe VF loss. Myopic and nonmyopic patients may follow different pathophysiologic processes. Discriminative attentions should be paid to NTG patients by subtypes. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Corneal Pachymetry#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Middle Aged#Myopia#Optic Disk#Republic of Korea#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Tonometry, Ocular#Visual Fields'
b'A mapping population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from TMV 2 and its mutant, TMV 2-NLM was employed for mapping important taxonomic and productivity traits using genic and non-genic transposable element markers in peanut. Single nucleotide polymorphism and copy number variation using RAD-Sequencing data indicated very limited polymorphism between TMV 2 and TMV 2-NLM. But phenotypically they differed significantly for many taxonomic and productivity traits. Also, the RIL population showed significant variation for a few additional agronomic traits. A genetic linkage map of 1,205.66 cM was constructed using 91 genic and non-genic Arachis hypogaea transposable element (AhTE) markers. Using single marker analysis and QTL analysis, the markers with high phenotypic variance explained (PVE) were identified for branching pattern (32.3%), number of primary and secondary branches (19.9% and 28.4%, respectively), protein content (26.4%), days to 50% flowering (22.0%), content of oleic acid (15.1%), test weight (13.6%) and pod width (12.0%). Three genic markers (AhTE0357, AhTE0391, AhTE0025) with Arachis hypogaea miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (AhMITE1) activity in the genes Araip.TG1BL (B02 chromosome), Aradu.7N61X (A09 chromosome) and Aradu.7065G (A07 chromosome), respectively showed strong linkage with these taxonomic, productivity and quality traits. Since TMV 2 and TMV 2-NLM differed subtly at DNA level, the background noise in detecting the marker-trait associations was minimum; therefore, the markers identified in this study for the taxonomic and productivity traits may be significant and useful in peanut molecular breeding. labels: #Arachis#Breeding#Chromosome Mapping#Classification#DNA Transposable Elements#Genetic Linkage#Genetic Markers#Genome, Plant#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b"This paper presents the concept of a social autonomous agent to conceptualize such Autonomous Vehicles (AVs), which interacts with other AVs using social manners similar to human behavior. The presented AVs also have the capability of predicting intentions, i.e. mentalizing and copying the actions of each other, i.e. mirroring. Exploratory Agent Based Modeling (EABM) level of the Cognitive Agent Based Computing (CABC) framework has been utilized to design the proposed social agent. Furthermore, to emulate the functionality of mentalizing and mirroring modules of proposed social agent, a tailored mathematical model of the Richardson's arms race model has also been presented. The performance of the proposed social agent has been validated at two levels-firstly it has been simulated using NetLogo, a standard agent-based modeling tool and also, at a practical level using a prototype AV. The simulation results have confirmed that the proposed social agent-based collision avoidance strategy is 78.52% more efficient than Random walk based collision avoidance strategy in congested flock-like topologies. Whereas practical results have confirmed that the proposed scheme can avoid rear end and lateral collisions with the efficiency of 99.876% as compared with the IEEE 802.11n-based existing state of the art mirroring neuron-based collision avoidance scheme. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Automobile Driving#Automobiles#Computer Simulation#Humans#Imitative Behavior#Intention#Machine Learning#Models, Psychological#Robotics#Systems Analysis"
b'This report presents the use of a CT graft to augment the periimplant\nsoft tissue at time of abutment placement in a smoker using coronalanchoring sutures around a zirconia abutment. Soft tissue augmentation at the\ntime of abutment connection, avoiding abutment removal after CT grafting, useof a zirconia abutment and placement of coronal anchoring sutures might be the\nrecommended approach when dealing with such esthetic challenges. labels: #Connective Tissue#Crowns#Dental Abutments#Dental Implantation, Endosseous#Dental Prosthesis, Implant-Supported#Esthetics, Dental#Female#Gingivoplasty#Humans#Maxilla#Smoking#Sutures#Young Adult#Zirconium'
b'The purpose of this study was to assess the oral hygiene needs of 6,957\nkindergarten and first-grade children enrolled in the San Bernardino City UnifiedSchool District. The findings from this study revealed that 9 percent of first-graders\ndid not own a toothbrush, 15 percent shared a toothbrush and 25.3 percent self-reportedmouth pain. In one school, 30 percent of the first-graders did not own a\ntoothbrush and overall 38 percent of kindergarteners shared a toothbrush. labels: #California#Child#Child, Preschool#Dental Care for Children#Female#Health Services Needs and Demand#Humans#Male#Mass Screening#Oral Health#Oral Hygiene'
b"A survey was conducted in 2013 to document trends in\northodontic treatment provided by members of the California Society ofPediatric Dentistry (CSPD). A 21-item survey was mailed to all active\nmembers of CSPD. Active members of CSPD spent less time and treatedfewer orthodontic conditions in their practice. labels: #California#Humans#Orthodontics#Pediatric Dentistry#Practice Patterns, Dentists'"
b"Research indicates that while most nondental medical providers\nbelieve pediatric oral assessments are important, most lack education and training.This study investigated a metropolitan area in Southern California medical\nproviders\xe2\x80\x99 knowledge, attitudes and practices on oral health assessments. Resultsindicate a high incidence of incorrect dental knowledge. Common barriers were\nlack of knowledge and time. Early intervention and timely dental referrals among\nnondental medical providers can play a significant role in promoting oral health. labels: #California#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#Dental Care for Children#Diagnosis, Oral#Female#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Male#Practice Patterns, Dentists'#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'Oral cancer etiology is complex and controlled by multi-factorial events including genetic events. Candidate gene studies, genome-wide association studies, and next-generation sequencing identified various chromosomal loci to be associated with oral cancer. There is no available review that could give us the comprehensive picture of genetic loci identified to be associated with oral cancer by candidate gene studies-based, genome-wide association studies-based, and next-generation sequencing-based approaches. A systematic literature search was performed in the PubMed database to identify the loci associated with oral cancer by exclusive candidate gene studies-based, genome-wide association studies-based, and next-generation sequencing-based study approaches. The information of loci associated with oral cancer is made online through the resource "ORNATE." Next, screening of the loci validated by candidate gene studies and next-generation sequencing approach or by two independent studies within candidate gene studies or next-generation sequencing approaches were performed. A total of 264 loci were identified to be associated with oral cancer by candidate gene studies, genome-wide association studies, and next-generation sequencing approaches. In total, 28 loci, that is, 14q32.33 (AKT1), 5q22.2 (APC), 11q22.3 (ATM), 2q33.1 (CASP8), 11q13.3 (CCND1), 16q22.1 (CDH1), 9p21.3 (CDKN2A), 1q31.1 (COX-2), 7p11.2 (EGFR), 22q13.2 (EP300), 4q35.2 (FAT1), 4q31.3 (FBXW7), 4p16.3 (FGFR3), 1p13.3 (GSTM1-GSTT1), 11q13.2 (GSTP1), 11p15.5 (H-RAS), 3p25.3 (hOGG1), 1q32.1 (IL-10), 4q13.3 (IL-8), 12p12.1 (KRAS), 12q15 (MDM2), 12q13.12 (MLL2), 9q34.3 (NOTCH1), 17p13.1 (p53), 3q26.32 (PIK3CA), 10q23.31 (PTEN), 13q14.2 (RB1), and 5q14.2 (XRCC4), were validated to be associated with oral cancer. "ORNATE" gives a snapshot of genetic loci associated with oral cancer. All 28 loci were validated to be linked to oral cancer for which further fine-mapping followed by gene-by-gene and gene-environment interaction studies is needed to confirm their involvement in modifying oral cancer. labels: #Genetic Loci#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Mouth Neoplasms'
b'DACT1 has been shown to participate in the development of many types of tumors; however, its role and precise molecular mechanisms in leukemia are unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of DACT1 on KG-1\xce\xb1 leukemia cells to further understand the mechanisms of DACT1-mediated tumor suppression. We transfected a DACT1 expression plasmid to upregulate DACT1 in KG-1\xce\xb1 cells and analyzed the resulting phenotypic changes. The results demonstrated that DACT1 overexpression inhibited KG-1\xce\xb1 proliferation, increased apoptosis, and arrested cells in the G0/G1 phase. Mechanistically, DACT1 overexpression inhibited Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling by reducing nuclear \xce\xb2-catenin levels in KG-1\xce\xb1 cells. Furthermore, the viability of KG-1\xce\xb1 cells transfected with DACT1 was significantly reduced when treated with daunorubicin. We also found that DACT1 reduced P-glycoprotein expression in KG-1\xce\xb1 cells. These findings revealed an inhibitory role for DACT1 in leukemogenesis and provided evidence that DACT1 is an attractive target for the development of novel anti-leukemia therapies. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B, Member 1#Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Daunorubicin#G1 Phase#Gene Expression Regulation, Leukemic#Humans#Leukemia#Nuclear Proteins#Resting Phase, Cell Cycle#Transfection#Up-Regulation#Wnt Signaling Pathway#beta Catenin'
b"The presence of distant metastasis is associated with an adverse outcome in papillary thyroid cancer. We performed a meta-analysis to investigate the role of molecular markers as predictors for distant metastasis in papillary thyroid cancer. Four electronic databases including PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and Virtual Health Library were searched, and odds ratio and its 95% confidence interval concerning the association of BRAF, RAS, and TERT promoter mutations and RET/PTC rearrangements with distant metastasis were calculated using random-effects model. In total, 42 studies with 11,109 papillary thyroid cancers were included for meta-analyses. Overall, the presence of TERT promoter (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x895.95; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.95-11.99), RAS mutations (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.5; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.00-6.22), and RET/PTC rearrangements (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.92; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.03-3.56) were found to be associated with a significantly increased risk for distant metastasis. BRAF mutations were not associated with an elevated risk for distant metastasis (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.79; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.54-1.16). In conclusion, our study demonstrated the promising value of few molecular biomarkers, especially TERT promoter mutations in predicting distant metastasis in papillary thyroid cancers, while BRAF mutations showed no association with distant metastasis. Our study affirms the value of selected mutations for tumor risk stratification and assessment of patients' prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma#Carcinoma, Papillary#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Neoplasm Metastasis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Telomerase#Thyroid Neoplasms#ras Proteins"
b'BACKGROUND: Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome (JLNS) isa recessive model of long QT syndrome which might also be related to possible hearing loss. Although the syndrome has been demonstrated to be originated from homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in either the KCNQ1 or KCNE1 genes, additional mutations in other genetic loci should be considered, particularly in malignant course patients.CASE PRESENTATIONS: Three patients were admitted into hospital due to recurrent seizures/syncope, intrauterine and postnatal bradycardia respectively; moreover all three patients had congenital sensorineural hearing-loss. Their electrocardiograms showed markedly prolonged QT interval. Implantable defibrillator was implanted and left cardiac sympathetic denervation was performed due to the progressive disease in case 1. She had countless ventricular fibrillation and appropriate shock while using an implantable defibrillator. The DNA sequencing analysis of the KCNQ1 gene disclosed a homozygous c.728G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A (p.Arg243His) missense mutation in case1. Further targeted next generation sequencing of cardiac panel comprising 68 gene revealed a heterozygous c.1346\xc2\xa0T\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0G (p.Ile449Arg) variant in RYR2 gene and a heterozygous c.809G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A (p.Cys270Tyr) variant in NKX2-5 gene in the same patient. Additional gene alterations in RYR2 and NKX2-5 genes were thought to be responsible for progressive and malignant course of the disease. As a result of DNA sequencing analysis of KCNQ1 and KCNE1 genes, a compound heterozygosity for two mutations had been detected in KCNQ1 gene in case 2: a maternally derived c.477\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa01G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A splice site mutation and a paternally derived c.520C\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0T (p.Arg174Cys) missense mutation. Sanger sequencing of KCNQ1 and KCNE1 genes displayed a homozygous c.1097G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A (p.Arg366Gln) mutation in KCNQ1 gene in case 3. \xce\xb2-blocker therapy was initiated to all the index subjects.CONCLUSIONS: Three families of JLNS who presented with long QT and deafness and who carry homozygous, or compound heterozygous mutation in KCNQ1 gene were presented in this report. It was emphasized that broad targeted cardiac panels may be useful to predict the outcome especially in patients with unexplained phenotype-genotype correlation.\xc2\xa0Clinical presentations and molecular findings will be discussed further to clarify the phenotype genotype associations. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Child, Preschool#Electrocardiography#Female#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Heterozygote#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Homeobox Protein Nkx-2.5#Homozygote#Humans#Infant#Jervell-Lange Nielsen Syndrome#KCNQ1 Potassium Channel#Male#Pedigree#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Ryanodine Receptor Calcium Release Channel#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Turkey'
b": Background: Most veterans have the option of receiving their health care from the Veterans Health Administration or through primary care providers in the private sector. However, there is some evidence that fewer than half of community-based, private sector primary care and mental health providers screen their patients for military service, particularly in rural areas, leaving these veterans less likely to be screened for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other military service-related conditions.PURPOSE: To determine whether primary care providers in the private sector are screening patients for military service and subsequent PTSD.METHODS: We designed and piloted a survey to determine whether primary care providers in a rural Pennsylvania region routinely screen for military service and service-related PTSD. We distributed the survey to a convenience sample of more than 250 primary care providers in central and western Pennsylvania through the U.S. Postal Service, via Facebook, and via work e-mails for those who worked in a local health system.RESULTS: Among 50 eligible respondents, only four (8%) said they screen all their patients for military service, and 20 (40%) reported screening none; only two respondents (4%) screened all their patients who have served in the military for PTSD, and 30 (60%) screened none.CONCLUSION: Veterans who rely on private sector providers may not receive evidence-based care for military service-related health problems, including PTSD. To improve care for these patients, providers in the private sector should be educated on why all patients should be screened for military service, how to conduct such screening properly, and veterans' general health concerns. labels: #Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Military Personnel#Pennsylvania#Physician-Patient Relations#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Primary Health Care#Quality of Health Care#Stress Disorders, Post-Traumatic#Surveys and Questionnaires#Veterans"
b'Worldwide use of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded blocks (FFPE) is extensive in diagnosis and research. Yet, there is a lack of optimized/standardized protocols to process the blocks and verify the quality and presence of the targeted tissue. In the context of an international study on head and neck cancer (HNC)-HPV-AHEAD, a standardized protocol for optimizing the use of FFPEs in molecular epidemiology was developed and validated. First, a protocol for sectioning the FFPE was developed to prevent cross-contamination and distributed between participating centers. Before processing blocks, all sectioning centers underwent a quality control to guarantee a satisfactory training process. The first and last sections of the FFPEs were used for histopathological assessment. A consensus histopathology evaluation form was developed by an international panel of pathologists and evaluated for four indicators in a pilot analysis in order to validate it: 1) presence/type of tumor tissue, 2) identification of other tissue components that could affect the molecular diagnosis and 3) quality of the tissue. No HPV DNA was found in sections from empty FFPE generated in any histology laboratories of HPV-AHEAD consortium and all centers passed quality assurance for processing after quality control. The pilot analysis to validate the histopathology form included 355 HNC cases. The form was filled by six pathologists and each case was randomly assigned to two of them. Most samples (86%) were considered satisfactory. Presence of>50% of invasive carcinoma was observed in all sections of 66% of cases. Substantial necrosis (>50%) was present in<2% of samples. The concordance for the indicators targeted to validate the histopathology form was very high (kappa>0.85) between first and last sections and fair to high between pathologists (kappa/pabak 0.21-0.72). The protocol allowed to correctly process without signs of contamination all FFPE of the study. The histopathology evaluation of the cases assured the presence of the targeted tissue, identified the presence of other tissues that could disturb the molecular diagnosis and allowed the assessment of tissue quality. labels: #Carcinoma#Europe#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#India#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Molecular Epidemiology#Necrosis#Paraffin#Paraffin Embedding#Pilot Projects#Random Allocation'
b'The adaptation of the CRISPR-Cas9 system as a genome editing technique has generated much excitement in recent years owing to its ability to manipulate targeted genes and genomic regions that are complementary to a programmed single guide RNA (sgRNA). However, the efficacy of a specific sgRNA is not uniquely defined by exact sequence homology to the target site, thus unintended off-targets might additionally be cleaved. Current methods for sgRNA design are mainly concerned with predicting off-targets for a given sgRNA using basic sequence features and employ elementary rules for ranking possible sgRNAs. Here, we introduce CRISTA (CRISPR Target Assessment), a novel algorithm within the machine learning framework that determines the propensity of a genomic site to be cleaved by a given sgRNA. We show that the predictions made with CRISTA are more accurate than other available methodologies. We further demonstrate that the occurrence of bulges is not a rare phenomenon and should be accounted for in the prediction process. Beyond predicting cleavage efficiencies, the learning process provides inferences regarding patterns that underlie the mechanism of action of the CRISPR-Cas9 system. We discover that attributes that describe the spatial structure and rigidity of the entire genomic site as well as those surrounding the PAM region are a major component of the prediction capabilities. labels: #Algorithms#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Computational Biology#Gene Editing#Humans#Machine Learning#RNA, Guide#ROC Curve'
b'BACKGROUND: In China, dengue remains an important public health issue with expanded areas and increased incidence recently. Accurate and timely forecasts of dengue incidence in China are still lacking. We aimed to use the state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms to develop an accurate predictive model of dengue.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Weekly dengue cases, Baidu search queries and climate factors (mean temperature, relative humidity and rainfall) during 2011-2014 in Guangdong were gathered. A dengue search index was constructed for developing the predictive models in combination with climate factors. The observed year and week were also included in the models to control for the long-term trend and seasonality. Several machine learning algorithms, including the support vector regression (SVR) algorithm, step-down linear regression model, gradient boosted regression tree algorithm (GBM), negative binomial regression model (NBM), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) linear regression model and generalized additive model (GAM), were used as candidate models to predict dengue incidence. Performance and goodness of fit of the models were assessed using the root-mean-square error (RMSE) and R-squared measures. The residuals of the models were examined using the autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation function analyses to check the validity of the models. The models were further validated using dengue surveillance data from five other provinces. The epidemics during the last 12 weeks and the peak of the 2014 large outbreak were accurately forecasted by the SVR model selected by a cross-validation technique. Moreover, the SVR model had the consistently smallest prediction error rates for tracking the dynamics of dengue and forecasting the outbreaks in other areas in China.CONCLUSION AND SIGNIFICANCE: The proposed SVR model achieved a superior performance in comparison with other forecasting techniques assessed in this study. The findings can help the government and community respond early to dengue epidemics. labels: #Algorithms#China#Climate#Dengue#Disease Outbreaks#Forecasting#Humans#Incidence#Linear Models#Machine Learning#Predictive Value of Tests#Public Health#Temperature'
b"Malaria transmission is known to be strongly impacted by temperature. The current understanding of how temperature affects mosquito and parasite life history traits derives from a limited number of empirical studies. These studies, some dating back to the early part of last century, are often poorly controlled, have limited replication, explore a narrow range of temperatures, and use a mixture of parasite and mosquito species. Here, we use a single pairing of the Asian mosquito vector, An. stephensi and the human malaria parasite, P. falciparum to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the thermal performance curves of a range of mosquito and parasite traits relevant to transmission. We show that biting rate, adult mortality rate, parasite development rate, and vector competence are temperature sensitive. Importantly, we find qualitative and quantitative differences to the assumed temperature-dependent relationships. To explore the overall implications of temperature for transmission, we first use a standard model of relative vectorial capacity. This approach suggests a temperature optimum for transmission of 29\xc2\xb0C, with minimum and maximum temperatures of 12\xc2\xb0C and 38\xc2\xb0C, respectively. However, the robustness of the vectorial capacity approach is challenged by the fact that the empirical data violate several of the model's simplifying assumptions. Accordingly, we present an alternative model of relative force of infection that better captures the observed biology of the vector-parasite interaction. This model suggests a temperature optimum for transmission of 26\xc2\xb0C, with a minimum and maximum of 17\xc2\xb0C and 35\xc2\xb0C, respectively. The differences between the models lead to potentially divergent predictions for the potential impacts of current and future climate change on malaria transmission. The study provides a framework for more detailed, system-specific studies that are essential to develop an improved understanding on the effects of temperature on malaria transmission. labels: #Animals#Culicidae#Female#Humans#Life Cycle Stages#Malaria#Models, Biological#Parasites#Temperature#Time Factors"
b'Pollination syndromes and their predictive power regarding actual plant-animal interactions have been controversially discussed in the past. We investigate pollination syndromes in Balsaminaceae, utilizing quantitative respectively categorical data sets of flower morphometry, signal and reward traits for 86 species to test for the effect of different types of data on the test patterns retrieved. Cluster Analyses of the floral traits are used in combination with independent pollinator observations. Based on quantitative data we retrieve seven clusters, six of them corresponding to plausible pollination syndromes and one additional, well-supported cluster comprising highly divergent floral architectures. This latter cluster represents a non-syndrome of flowers not segregated by the specific data set here used. Conversely, using categorical data we obtained only a rudimentary resolution of pollination syndromes, in line with several earlier studies. The results underscore that the use of functional, exactly quanitified trait data has the power to retrieve pollination syndromes circumscribed by the specific data used. Data quality can, however, not be replaced by sheer data volume. With this caveat, it is possible to identify pollination syndromes from large datasets and to reliably extrapolate them for taxa for which direct observations are unavailable. labels: #Animals#Balsaminaceae#Cluster Analysis#Data Accuracy#Flowers#Pollination#Species Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: Providing HIV testing at health facilities remains the most common approach to ensuring access to HIV treatment and prevention services for the millions of undiagnosed HIV-infected individuals in sub-Saharan Africa. We sought to explore the costs of providing these services across three southern African countries with high HIV burden.METHODS: Primary costing studies were undertaken in 54 health facilities providing HIV testing services (HTS) in Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Routinely collected monitoring and evaluation data for the health facilities were extracted to estimate the costs per individual tested and costs per HIV-positive individual identified. Costs are presented in 2016 US dollars. Sensitivity analysis explored key drivers of costs.RESULTS: Health facilities were testing on average 2290 individuals annually, albeit with wide variations. The mean cost per individual tested was US$5.03.9 in Malawi, US$4.24 in Zambia and US$8.79 in Zimbabwe. The mean cost per HIV-positive individual identified was US$79.58, US$73.63 and US$178.92 in Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe respectively. Both cost estimates were sensitive to scale of testing, facility staffing levels and the costs of HIV test kits.CONCLUSIONS: Health facility based HIV testing remains an essential service to meet HIV universal access goals. The low costs and potential for economies of scale suggests an opportunity for further scale-up. However low uptake in many settings suggests that demand creation or alternative testing models may be needed to achieve economies of scale and reach populations less willing to attend facility based services. labels: #Feasibility Studies#HIV Infections#Health Care Costs#Health Facilities#Humans#Malawi#Mass Screening#Patient Acceptance of Health Care#Zambia#Zimbabwe'
b'INTRODUCTION AND METHOD: Africa is currently host to a number of international genomics research and biobanking consortia, each with a mandate to advance genomics research and biobanking in Africa. Whilst most of these consortia promise to transform the way international health research is done in Africa, few have articulated exactly how they propose to go about this. In this paper, we report on a qualitative interviewing study in which we involved 17 genomics researchers in Africa. We describe their perceptions and expectations of international genomics research and biobanking initiatives in Africa.RESULTS: All interviewees were of the view that externally funded genomics research and biobanking initiatives in Africa, have played a critical role in building capacity for genomics research and biobanking in Africa and in providing an opportunity for researchers in Africa to collaborate and network with other researchers. Whilst the opportunity to collaborate was seen as a benefit, some interviewees stressed the importance of recognizing that these collaborations carry mutual benefits for all partners, including their collaborators in HICs. They also voiced two major concerns of being part of these collaborative initiatives: the possibility of exploitation of African researchers and the non-sustainability of research capacity building efforts. As a way of minimising exploitation, researchers in Africa recommended that genuine efforts be made to create transparent and equitable international health research partnerships. They suggested that this could be achieved through,: having rules of engagement, enabling African researchers to contribute to the design and conduct of international health projects in Africa, and mutual and respectful exchange of experience and capacity between research collaborators. These were identified as hallmarks to equitable international health research collaborations in Africa.CONCLUSION: Genomics research and biobanking initiatives in Africa such as H3Africa have gone some way in defining aspects of fair and equitable research collaborations in Africa. However, they will need to strive at achieving equitable health research collaborations if they truly aim at setting a gold standard for how international health research should be conducted in Africa. labels: #Africa#Biological Specimen Banks#Biomedical Research#Capacity Building#Cooperative Behavior#Decision Making#Genomics#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Qualitative Research#Research Design#Research Personnel'
b'PURPOSE: To analyze internal spherical aberration in pseudophakic eyes that underwent aspheric intraocular lens (IOL) implantation, and to investigate the relationships between biometric data and the effectiveness of aspheric IOL implantation.METHODS: This retrospective study included 40 eyes of 40 patients who underwent implantation of an IOL having a negative spherical aberration of -0.20 \xce\xbcm (CT ASPHINA 509M; Carl Zeiss Meditec Inc., Germany). The IOLMaster (version 5.0; Carl Zeiss AG, Germany) was used for preoperative biometric measurements (axial length, anterior chamber depth, central corneal power) and the measurement of postoperative anterior chamber depth. The spherical aberrations were measured preoperatively and 3 months postoperatively using the iTrace (Tracey Technologies, Houston, TX, USA) at a pupil diameter of 5.0 mm. We investigated the relationships between preoperative biometric data and postoperative internal spherical aberration, and compared biometric measurements between 2 subgroups stratified according to internal spherical aberration (spherical aberration \xe2\x89\xa4 -0.06 \xce\xbcm vs. spherical aberration>-0.06 \xce\xbcm).RESULTS: The mean postoperative internal spherical aberration was -0.087 \xc2\xb1 0.063 \xce\xbcm. Preoperative axial length and residual total spherical aberration showed statistically significant correlations with internal spherical aberration (p = 0.041, 0.002). Preoperative axial length, postoperative anterior chamber depth, IOL power, and residual spherical aberration showed significant differences between the 2 subgroups stratified according to internal spherical aberration (p = 0.020, 0.029, 0.048, 0.041 respectively).CONCLUSION: The corrective effect of an aspheric IOL is influenced by preoperative axial length and postoperative anterior chamber depth. Not only the amount of negative spherical aberration on the IOL surface but also the preoperative axial length should be considered to optimize spherical aberration after aspheric IOL implantation. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biometry#Cataract#Cataract Extraction#Cornea#Corneal Wavefront Aberration#Humans#Lens Implantation, Intraocular#Lenses, Intraocular#Linear Models#Middle Aged#Postoperative Period#Preoperative Period#Pseudophakia#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Isoniazid (INH) is part of the first-line-therapy for tuberculosis (TB) but can cause drug-induced liver injury (DILI). Several candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been previously identified but the clinical utility of these SNPs in the prediction of INH-DILI remains uncertain. The aim of this study was to assess the association between selected candidate SNPs and the risk of INH-DILI and to assess the clinical validity of associated variants in a Singaporean population.METHODS: This was a case-control study where 24 INH-DILI cases and 79 controls were recruited from the TB control unit in a tertiary hospital. Logistic regression was used to test for the association between candidate SNPs and INH-DILI. NAT2 acetylator status was inferred from genotypes and tested for association with INH-DILI. Finally, clinical validity measures were estimated for significant variants.RESULTS: Two SNPs in NAT2 (rs1041983 and rs1495741) and NAT2 slow acetylators (SA) were significantly associated with INH-DILI (OR (95% CI) = 13.86 (4.30-44.70), 0.10 (0.03-0.33) and 9.98 (3.32-33.80), respectively). Based on an INH-DILI prevalence of 10%, the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of NAT2 SA were 75%, 78%, 28% and 97%, respectively. The population attributable fraction (PAF) and number needed to test (NNT) for NAT2 SA were estimated to be 0.67 and 4.08, respectively. A model with clinical and NAT2 acetylator status provided significantly better prediction for INH-DILI than a clinical model alone (area under receiver operating characteristic curve = 0.863 vs. 0.766, respectively, p = 0.027).CONCLUSIONS: We show the association between NAT2 SA and INH-DILI in a Singaporean population and demonstrated its clinical utility in the prediction of INH-DILI. labels: #Antitubercular Agents#Arylamine N-Acetyltransferase#Biomarkers, Pharmacological#Case-Control Studies#Chemical and Drug Induced Liver Injury#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Isoniazid#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prognosis#Singapore#Tuberculosis'
b'OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the differences and similarities in dietary patterns among migrants and natives.METHODS: A population-based, cross-sectional study was conducted in the city of S\xc3\xa3o Paulo. The study population included internal migrants, defined as individuals born outside S\xc3\xa3o Paulo city who had lived in the city for ten years or longer. The final population (n = 999) was divided into three groups: natives of S\xc3\xa3o Paulo (n = 354), migrants from the Southeast (n = 349) and migrants from the Northeast (n = 296). Factor and principal component analysis was employed to derive dietary patterns. The standardized scores were compared among groups using linear regression.RESULTS: Differences in income per capita, years of education, self-reported race, smoking habits, alcohol consumption, nutritional status and prevalence of hypertension were found for place of birth. Three dietary patterns were identified: prudent (salad dressings, vegetables, natural flavorings, fruits, whole-grain bread, white cheeses and juices), traditional (rice, beans, bread/toast/crackers, butter/margarine, whole milk, coffee/teas, sugar), and modern (sodas, pastries/sandwiches/pizzas, yellow cheeses, pastas, sauces, alcoholic beverages, sweets, processed meats). Compared to natives, migrants from the Southeast had an inversely proportional adherence to the modern pattern whereas migrants from the Northeast had an inverse association with the prudent and modern patterns and a positive association with the traditional pattern.CONCLUSIONS: S\xc3\xa3o Paulo natives and internal migrants from other regions of Brazil exhibited different dietary patterns. The results presented here add perspectives to be considered in the study of non-communicable diseases and its different incidences among migrants and natives. labels: #Brazil#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diet#Diet Surveys#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Principal Component Analysis#Self Report#Socioeconomic Factors#Transients and Migrants'
b'BACKGROUND: Plasmodium vivax transmission in Thailand has been substantially reduced over the past 10 years, yet it remains highly endemic along international borders. Understanding the genetic relationship of residual parasite populations can help track the origins of the parasites that are reintroduced into malaria-free regions within the country.METHODOLOGY/RESULTS: A total of 127 P. vivax isolates were genotyped from two western provinces (Tak and Kanchanaburi) and one eastern province (Ubon Ratchathani) of Thailand using 10 microsatellite markers. Genetic diversity was high, but recent clonal expansion was detected in all three provinces. Substantial population structure and genetic differentiation of parasites among provinces suggest limited gene flow among these sites. There was no haplotype sharing among the three sites, and a reduced panel of four microsatellite markers was sufficient to assign the parasites to their provincial origins.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Significant parasite genetic differentiation between provinces shows successful interruption of parasite spread within Thailand, but high diversity along international borders implies a substantial parasite population size in these regions. The provincial origin of P. vivax cases can be reliably determined by genotyping four microsatellite markers, which should be useful for monitoring parasite reintroduction after malaria elimination. labels: #Cambodia#Gene Flow#Genetic Variation#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Internationality#Malaria, Vivax#Microsatellite Repeats#Myanmar#Phylogeography#Plasmodium vivax#Thailand'
b'The formation of the coccolith biominerals by a group of marine algae (the Coccolithophores) offers fascinating research avenues both from the biological and geological sides. It is surprising how biomineralisation by a key phytoplanktonic group remains underconstrained, yet is influential on ocean alkalinity and responsible for the built up of our paleoclimatic archive over the last 200 Myrs. Here, we report two close relative coccolith taxa exhibiting substantial bioaccumulation of strontium: Scyphosphaera and Pontosphaera grown in the laboratory or retrieved from Pliocene sediments. This strontium enrichment relative to calcium is one order of magnitude greater than reported in other coccoliths of the orders Isochrysidales and Coccolithales, and extends well beyond established controls on Sr/Ca ratios by temperature and growth rate. We discuss this prominent vital effect in relation with possible specific uptake of strontium relative to calcium from the extracellular environment to the coccolith vesicle in coccolithophores excreting very large scale coccoliths. The report of Sr-rich biominerals challenges our current understanding of the cellular acquisition and intracellular trafficking of alkaline earth cations in phytoplanktonic calcifying eukaryotic algae. The presence of Sr-rich coccolith species in the geological record has to be quantitatively considered in future Sr/Ca-based palaeoceanographic reconstruction. labels: #Calcification, Physiologic#Calcium#Fossils#Haptophyta#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Oceans and Seas#Sicily#Spectrum Analysis#Strontium#Temperature#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'The prediction of object stability on earth requires the establishment of a perceptual frame of reference based on the direction of gravity. Across three experiments, we measured the critical angle (CA) at which an object appeared equally likely to fall over or right itself. We investigated whether the internal representation of the gravity direction, biased by either simulated tilt (rotating visual surround) or real body tilt situations, influences in a similar fashion the judgment of stability. In the simulated tilt condition, the estimated CA and the perceived gravity are both deviated in the same direction. In the real tilt condition, the orientation of the body affects the perception of gravity direction but has no effect on the estimated CA. Results suggest that people differently weigh gravity direction information provided by visual motion and by visual polarity cues for estimating the stability of objects. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Cues#Female#Gravity Sensing#Humans#Male#Motion#Orientation#Photic Stimulation#Visual Perception#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Juvenile myasthenia gravis (MG) is a rare autoantibody mediated autoimmune disorder targeting the neuromuscular endplate. The clinical hallmark is muscle weakness and fatigability. Disease aetiology is complex, including both genetic and environmental factors. The involvement of genes in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is well established in adult MG. However, HLA associations in European juvenile MG have not been studied. This case-control study aimed to investigate and characterize genetic risk factors in prepubertal and postpubertal onset juvenile MG.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A population based Norwegian cohort of 43 juvenile MG patients (17 with prepubertal onset, 26 with postpubertal onset) and 368 controls were included. Next generation sequencing of five HLA loci (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1 and -DQB1) was performed, and a positive association was seen with HLA-B*08 (OR (95% CI) = 3.27 (2.00-5.36), Pc = 0.00003) and HLA-DRB1*04:04 (OR (95% CI) = 2.65 (1.57-4.24), Pc = 0.03). Stratified in postpubertal and prepubertal onset, HLA-DRB1*04:04 was only positively associated with the latter (P = 0.01). The HLA-B*08 allele (12.9% in the controls), previously described associated with early onset adult MG, was most frequently observed in postpubertal onset MG (40.4%, P = 0.0002) but also increased among prepubertal onset MG (23.5%, P = 0.05).CONCLUSION: This study provides novel information about HLA susceptibility alleles in Norwegian juvenile MG where HLA-DRB1*04:04 was associated with prepubertal onset. labels: #Adolescent#Age of Onset#Case-Control Studies#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Genetic Loci#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#HLA-DRB1 Chains#Humans#Infant#Male#Myasthenia Gravis#Norway#Puberty'
b'Brucella canis infection is an important cause of late-term abortion in pregnant bitches. The pathophysiological mechanisms leading to B. canis-induced abortion are unknown, but heavily infected trophoblasts are consistently observed. As trophoblasts responses to other pathogens contribute to placental inflammation leading to abortion, the aim of the present study was to characterize the cytokine response of canine trophoblasts to B. canis infection. To achieve this, trophoblasts isolated from term placenta of healthy female dogs were infected with B. canis, culture supernatants were harvested for cytokine determinations, and the load of intracellular viable B. canis was determined at different times post-infection. Additionally, cytokine responses were assessed in non-infected trophoblasts stimulated with conditioned media (CM) from B. canis-infected canine monocytes and neutrophils. Finally, cytokine response and bacteria replication were assessed in canine placental explants infected ex vivo. B. canis successfully infected and replicated in primary canine trophoblasts, eliciting an increase in IL-8 and RANTES (CCL5) secretion. Moreover, the stimulation of trophoblasts with CM from B. canis-infected monocytes and neutrophils induced a significant increase in IL-8, IL-6 and RANTES secretion. B. canis replication was confirmed in infected placental explants and the infection elicited an increased secretion of TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-8, IL-6 and RANTES. This study shows that canine trophoblasts produce proinflammatory cytokines in response to B. canis infection and/or to stimulation with factors produced by infected monocytes and neutrophils. These cytokines may contribute to placental inflammation leading to abortion in B. canis-infected pregnant bitches. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Bacterial#Brucella canis#Chemokines#Dogs#Female#Inflammation#Phagocytes#Placenta#Pregnancy#Toll-Like Receptors#Trophoblasts'
b'Human and bovine respiratory syncytial viruses (HRSV/BRSV) are major causes of severe lower respiratory tract infections in children and calves, respectively. Shared epidemiological, clinical, pathological and genetic characteristics of these viruses make comparative research highly relevant. To characterise the host response against BRSV infection, bronchoalveolar lavage supernatant (BAL) from i) non-vaccinated, BRSV-infected ii) vaccinated, BRSV-infected and iii) non-infected calves was analysed by tandem mass spectrometry. Proteins were semi-quantified and protein expression was validated by immunoblotting. Correlations between selected proteins and pathology, clinical signs and virus shedding were investigated. Calves with BRSV-induced disease had increased total protein concentrations and a decreased number of proteins identified in BAL. The protein profile was characterised by neutrophil activation and a reduction in identified antioxidant enzymes. The presence of neutrophils in alveolar septa, the expression level of neutrophil-related or antioxidant proteins and LZTFL1 correlated significantly with disease. Citrullinated histone 3, an indicator of extracellular traps (ETs), was only detected in non-vaccinated, BRSV-infected animals. By bringing disequilibrium in the release and detoxification of reactive oxygen species, generating ETs and causing elastine degradation, exaggerated neutrophil responses might exacerbate RSV-induced disease. Neutrophil-mitigating or antioxidant treatments should be further explored. labels: #Animals#Bronchoalveolar Lavage#Cattle#Neutrophil Activation#Neutrophils#Proteomics#Reactive Oxygen Species#Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections#Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Bovine#Respiratory System#Transcriptome#Virus Shedding'
b"BACKGROUND/AIMS: MRI assessment of the brain has demonstrated four different patterns of atrophy in patients with Alzheimer's disease dementia (AD): typical AD, limbic-predominant AD, hippocampal-sparing AD, and a subtype with minimal atrophy, previously referred to as no-atrophy AD. The aim of the present study was to identify and describe the differences between these four AD subtypes in a longitudinal memory-clinic study.METHODS: The medial temporal lobes, the frontal regions, and the posterior regions were assessed with MRI visual rating scales to categorize 123 patients with mild AD according to ICD-10 and NINCDS-ADRDA criteria and the clinical dementia rating scale (CDR) into atrophy subtypes. Demographic data, neuropsychological measures, cerebrospinal-fluid biomarkers, and progression rate of dementia at two-year follow-up were compared between the groups.RESULTS: Typical AD was found in 59 patients (48%); 29 (24%) patients had limbic-predominant AD; 19 (15%) had hippocampal-sparing AD; and 16 (13%) belonged to the group with minimal atrophy. No differences were found regarding cognitive test results or progression rates between the different subtypes. Using adjusted logistic regression analysis, we found that the patients in the minimal-atrophy group were less educated, had a lower baseline CDR sum of boxes score, and had higher levels of amyloid \xce\xb2 in the cerebrospinal fluid.CONCLUSION: Previous results concerning the prevalence and the similar phenotypic expressions of the four AD subtypes were confirmed. The main finding was that patients with minimal atrophy as assessed by MRI had less education than the other AD subtypes and that this could support the cognitive reserve hypothesis and, at least in part, explain the lower degree of atrophy in this group. Patients with less formal education might present with clinically typical AD symptoms before they have positive biomarkers of AD and this finding might challenge suggested biomarker-based criteria for AD. labels: #Aged#Alzheimer Disease#Atrophy#Cognitive Reserve#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male"
b"BACKGROUND: Testing whether familial socioeconomic status (SES) in childhood is a predictor of mortality has rarely been done on historical cohorts.METHODS: The birth certificates of 4,805 individuals born 1914-1916 in 16 districts of the Paris region were retrieved. The handwritten information provided the occupation of parents, the legitimacy status, life events (e.g. marriage, divorce), and the precise date of death when after 1945 (i.e. age 31 years (y) in the cohort). We used the median age at death (MAD) as a global measure of mortality, then studied separately survival to and after 31 y. Multivariate Imputation by Chained Equations (MICE), Generalized Additive Models (GAMs) and mixed effect Cox models were used.RESULTS: MAD showed large variations according to paternal occupation. The lowest MAD in both sexes was that of workers' children: it was 56.3 y (95% CI: [48.6-62.7]) in men and 67.4 y (95% CI: [60.8-72.7]) in women, respectively (95% CI: 13.4 y [5.7-21.3]) and 12.3 y (95% CI: [4.0-19.2]) below the highest MAD attained. MAD experienced by illegitimate children was 18.9 y (95% CI: [13.3-32.3]) shorter than of legitimate children. The multivariate analysis revealed that in both sexes survival to age 31 y was predicted independently by legitimacy and paternal occupation. Paternal occupation was found significantly associated with mortality after age 31 y in females only: accordingly difference in life expectancy at age 31 y was 4.4 y (95% CI: [1.2-7.6]) between upper class and workers' daughters.CONCLUSIONS: Paternal occupation and legitimacy status were strong predictors of offspring longevity in this one-century historical cohort born during World War One. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Illegitimacy#Life Expectancy#Longevity#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Paris#Sex Factors#Social Class#Survival Analysis"
b'Promoter methylation is the most significant mechanism to regulate O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) expression. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the MGMT promoter region may also play a role. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical significance of SNPs in the MGMT promoter region of glioblastoma. Genomic DNAs from 118 glioblastomas were collected for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Sanger sequencing was used to sequence the MGMT promoter region to detect SNPs. The results were correlated with MGMT status and patient survival. Rs1625649 was the only polymorphic SNP located at the MGMT promoter region in 37.5% of glioblastomas. Homozygous rs1625649 (AA genotype) was correlated with a higher MGMT methylation level and a lower protein expression, but the result was not statistically significant. In patients with MGMT methylated glioblastoma, cases with homozygous rs1625649 (AA genotype) were significantly associated with a lack of MGMT protein expression and a better progression-free survival (PFS) than the cases with wild type rs1625649 (CC genotype) or heterozygous rs1625649 (CA genotype). The survival impact was significant in multivariate analyses. In conclusion, the MGMT promoter homozygous rs1625649 (AA genotype) was found to correlate with a better PFS in patients with MGMT methylated glioblastoma. labels: #DNA Methylation#DNA Modification Methylases#DNA Repair Enzymes#Female#Glioblastoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prognosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Survival Analysis#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b"Drosophila atonal (ato) is required for the specification of founding R8 photoreceptors during retinal development. ato is regulated via dual eye-specific enhancers; ato-3' is subject to initial induction whereas 5'-ato facilitates Notch-mediated autoregulation. Notch is further utilized to induce bHLH repressors of the E(spl) locus to restrict Ato from its initial broad expression to individual cells. Although Notch operates in two, distinct phases, it has remained unclear how the two phases maintain independence from one another. The difference in these two phases has attributed to the hypothesized delayed expression of E(spl). However, immunofluorescence data indicate that E(spl) are expressed during early Ato patterning, suggesting a more sophisticated underlying mechanism. To probe this mechanism, we provide evidence that although E(spl) exert no influence on ato-3', E(spl) repress 5'-ato and deletion of the E(spl) locus elicits precocious 5'-ato activity. Thus, E(spl) imposes a delay to the timing in which Ato initiates autoregulation. We next sought to understand this finding in the context of E(spl)D, which encodes a dysregulated variant of E(spl)M8 that perturbs R8 patterning, though, as previously reported, only in conjunction with the mutant receptor Nspl. We established a genetic interaction between E(spl)D and roughened eye (roe), a known modulator of Notch signaling in retinogenesis. This link further suggests a dosage-dependence between E(spl) and the proneural activators Ato and Sens, as indicated via interaction assays in which E(spl)D renders aberrant R8 patterning in conjunction with reduced proneural dosage. In total, the biphasicity of Notch signaling relies, to some degree, on the post-translational regulation of individual E(spl) members and, importantly, that post-translational regulation is likely necessary to modulate the level of E(spl) activity throughout the progression of Ato expression. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Genetic Loci#Mutation#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Phenotype#Photoreceptor Cells, Invertebrate#Protein Transport"
b"Though piperazine derivative BK10007S was known to induce apoptosis in pancreatic cancer xenograft model as a T-type CaV3.1 a1G isoform calcium channel blocker, its underlying antitumor mechanism still remains unclear so far. Thus, in the present study, the antitumor mechanism of BK10007S was elucidated in hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCCs). Herein, BK10007S showed significant cytotoxicity by 3-[4,5-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetra-zolium bromide (MTT) assay and anti-proliferative effects by colony formation assay in HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells. Also, apoptotic bodies and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) dUTP Nick End Labeling (TUNEL) positive cells were observed in BK10007S treated HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylinodole (DAPI) staining and TUNEL assay, respectively. Consistently, BK10007S increased sub G1 population in HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells by cell cycle analysis. Furthermore, Western blotting revealed that BK10007S activated the caspase cascades (caspase 8, 9 and 3), cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), and downregulated the expression of cyclin D1, survivin and for CUG-binding protein 1 (CUGBP1 or CELF1) in HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells. Conversely, overexpression of CUGBP1 reduced cleavages of PARP and caspase 3, cytotoxicity and subG1 population in BK10007S treated HepG2 cells. Overall, these findings provide scientific evidences that BK10007S induces apoptosis via inhibition of CUGBP1 and activation of caspases in hepatocellular carcinomas as a potent anticancer candidate. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#CELF1 Protein#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Caspases#Cell Proliferation#Enzyme Activation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Piperazines#Quinazolines"
b'Integrative clustering is used to identify groups of samples by jointly analysing multiple datasets describing the same set of biological samples, such as gene expression, copy number, methylation etc. Most existing algorithms for integrative clustering assume that there is a shared consistent set of clusters across all datasets, and most of the data samples follow this structure. However in practice, the structure across heterogeneous datasets can be more varied, with clusters being joined in some datasets and separated in others. In this paper, we present a probabilistic clustering method to identify groups across datasets that do not share the same cluster structure. The proposed algorithm, Clusternomics, identifies groups of samples that share their global behaviour across heterogeneous datasets. The algorithm models clusters on the level of individual datasets, while also extracting global structure that arises from the local cluster assignments. Clusters on both the local and the global level are modelled using a hierarchical Dirichlet mixture model to identify structure on both levels. We evaluated the model both on simulated and on real-world datasets. The simulated data exemplifies datasets with varying degrees of common structure. In such a setting Clusternomics outperforms existing algorithms for integrative and consensus clustering. In a real-world application, we used the algorithm for cancer subtyping, identifying subtypes of cancer from heterogeneous datasets. We applied the algorithm to TCGA breast cancer dataset, integrating gene expression, miRNA expression, DNA methylation and proteomics. The algorithm extracted clinically meaningful clusters with significantly different survival probabilities. We also evaluated the algorithm on lung and kidney cancer TCGA datasets with high dimensionality, again showing clinically significant results and scalability of the algorithm. labels: #Algorithms#Breast Neoplasms#Cluster Analysis#Computational Biology#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Survival Analysis'
b'The aim of the study was to investigate the perception of the family functioning in parents of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) with normal-range intelligence and the relationships between family functioning, parenting stress and quality of life. Dyads of parents of children with ASD without intellectual disability and parents of typically developing children (controls) completed a set of self-report questionnaires. Parents of children with ASD reported lower functioning of the family as a whole and their own functioning as family members; they exhibited higher levels of parenting stress and lower quality of life. Mothers of children with ASD experienced more stress in personal domain than fathers. Relationships between family functioning, parenting stress and quality of life have been established. There were also moderate to strong correlations in mother-father dyads between their assessments of family functioning, parenting stress and QoL in social relationships and environmental domains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Asperger Syndrome#Autistic Disorder#Case-Control Studies#Child#Fathers#Female#Humans#Male#Mothers#Poland#Quality of Life#Regression Analysis#Self Report#Stress, Psychological'
b"Gender inequity in science and academia, especially in senior positions, is a recognised problem. The reasons are poorly understood, but include the persistence of historical gender ratios, discrimination and other factors, including gender-based behavioural differences. We studied participation in a professional context by observing question-asking behaviour at a large international conference with a clear equality code of conduct that prohibited any form of discrimination. Accounting for audience gender ratio, male attendees asked 1.8 questions for each question asked by a female attendee. Amongst only younger researchers, male attendees also asked 1.8 questions per female question, suggesting the pattern cannot be attributed to the temporary problem of demographic inertia. We link our findings to the 'chilly' climate for women in STEM, including wider experiences of discrimination likely encountered by women throughout their education and careers. We call for a broader and coordinated approach to understanding and addressing the barriers to women and other under-represented groups. We encourage the scientific community to recognise the context in which these gender differences occur, and evaluate and develop methods to support full participation from all attendees. labels: #Age Factors#Communication#Congresses as Topic#Female#Humans#Male#Research Personnel#Sex Characteristics#Sexism"
b'Myostatin is a negative regulator of myogenesis and has been suggested to be an important factor in the development of muscle wasting during viral infection. The objective of this study was to characterize the main regulatory element of the grouper myostatin promoter and to study changes in promoter activity due to viral stimulation. In vitro and in vivo experiments indicated that the E-box E6 is a positive cis-and trans-regulation motif, and an essential binding site for MyoD. In contrast, the E-box E5 is a dominant negative cis-regulatory. The characteristics of grouper myostatin promoter are similar in regulation of muscle growth to that of other species, but mainly through specific regulatory elements. According to these results, we conducted a study to investigate the effect of viral infection on myostatin promoter activity and its regulation. The nervous necrosis virus (NNV) treatment significantly induced myostatin promoter activity. The present study is the first report describing that specific myostatin motifs regulate promoter activity and response to viral infection. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Bass#E-Box Elements#Fish Proteins#Myostatin#Promoter Regions, Genetic'
b'OBJECTIVE: Preterm birth is associated with altered angiogenesis and with increased risk of cardiovascular dysfunction and hypertension at adulthood. We previously demonstrated that in preterm newborns circulating cord blood endothelial progenitor cells (ECFC), responsible for angio/vasculogenesis, are reduced in number and display altered angiogenic properties. Altered angiogenic function was associated with a decreased expression of pro-angiogenic genes, among which the AMOT gene which is a strong positive regulator of angiogenesis. Such dysregulation may be related to epigenetic factors. In this study we analyse the methylation profiling of the AMOT gene during development, through a comparative analysis of the cord blood ECFC of preterm newborns and their term counterpart.METHODS: We used both cloning-sequencing and pyrosequencing experiments to perform a comparative analysis of the DNA methylation profile of the promoter CpG island of AMOT gene in the cord blood ECFC of 16 preterm newborns (28-35 weeks gestational age-GA) and 15 term newborns (>37 weeks GA).RESULTS: Twenty nine clones (obtained from 2 term newborns) and forty clones (obtained from 3 preterm newborns) were sequenced. The AMOT gene methylation rate was significantly higher in preterm compared to term newborns (4.5% versus 2.5% respectively: \xcf\x872 = 3.84; P = 1.8 10-02). Bisulfite pyrosequencing identified four CpG dinucleotides with significantly higher methylation levels in preterm newborns. This CpG-targeted methylation significantly decreased with increasing gestational age.CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight importance of pro-angiogenic AMOT gene methylation in ECFC, suggesting that epigenetic mechanisms may control the regulation of angiogenesis during development. Therefore they pave the way to specific short term and long term complications of preterm birth by altered angiogenesis. labels: #Adult#CpG Islands#DNA Methylation#Endothelial Progenitor Cells#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Fetal Blood#Humans#Infant, Premature#Infant, Small for Gestational Age#Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Male#Maternal Age#Membrane Proteins#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b"Moschids are enigmatic pecoran ruminants whose phylogeny is still not fully understood. So far we know only little of the family's early evolutionary history and the origin of the modern genus, Moschus. Here we present a comprehensive description of cranial material, including the ear region and the dentition, of fossil moschid material from the Middle Miocene locality Steinheim am Albuch (13.5 Ma; Germany). This study provides the first exhaustive dataset for the cranial osteology of Micromeryx flourensianus, the most likely oldest true moschid. It furthermore reveals the presence of a second, so far undescribed moschid species, we here name Micromeryx? eiselei, in the abundant material from the locality. The two taxa can be clearly distinguished by characters of the skull, the ear region, the dentition, as well as by size. This evidences the sympatric occurrence of two moschid species in the locality Steinheim am Albuch. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Ear#Female#Fossils#Germany#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Models, Anatomic#Phylogeny#Ruminants#Skull#Tooth"
b'The aim of this study was to carry out genetic screening of the MEN1, CDKN1B and AIP genes, both by direct sequencing of the coding region and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay in the largest monocentric series of Italian patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1 syndrome (MEN1) and Familial Isolated Hyperparathyroidism (FIHP). The study also aimed to describe and compare the clinical features of MEN1 mutation-negative and mutation-positive patients during long-term follow-up and to correlate the specific types and locations of MEN1 gene mutations with onset and aggressiveness of the main MEN1 manifestations. A total of 69 index cases followed at the Endocrinology Unit in Pisa over a period of 19 years, including 54 MEN1 and 15 FIHP kindreds were enrolled. Seven index cases with MEN1 but MEN1 mutation-negative, followed at the University Hospital of Cagliari, were also investigated. FIHP were also tested for CDC73 and CaSR gene alterations. MEN1 germline mutations were identified in 90% of the index cases of familial MEN1 (F-MEN1) and in 23% of sporadic cases (S-MEN1). MEN1 and CDC73 mutations accounted for 13% and 7% of the FIHP cohort, respectively. A CDKN1B mutation was identified in one F-MEN1. Two AIP variants of unknown significance were detected in two MEN1-negative S-MEN1. A MEN1 positive test best predicted the onset of all three major MEN1-related manifestations or parathyroid and gastro-entero-pancreatic tumors during follow-up. A comparison between the clinical characteristics of F and S-MEN1 showed a higher prevalence of a single parathyroid disease and pituitary tumors in sporadic compared to familial MEN1 patients. No significant correlation was found between the type and location of MEN1 mutations and the clinical phenotype. Since all MEN1 mutation-positive sporadic patients had a phenotype resembling that of familial MEN1 (multiglandular parathyroid hyperplasia, a prevalence of gastro-entero-pancreatic tumors and/or the classic triad) we might hypothesize that a subset of the sporadic MEN1 mutation-negative patients could represent an incidental coexistence of sporadic primary hyperparathyroidism and pituitary tumors or a MEN1 phenocopy, in our cohort, as in most cases described in the literature. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Female#Gene Deletion#Genotype#Humans#Hyperparathyroidism, Primary#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Young Adult'
b'Disinfectants and biocidal products have been widely used to combat Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections in homes and healthcare environments. Although disruption of cytoplasmic membrane integrity has been documented as the main bactericidal effect of biocides, little is known about the biochemical alterations induced by these chemical agents. In this study, we used Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy and chemometric tools as an alternative non-destructive technique to determine the bactericidal effects of commonly used disinfectants against MRSA USA-300. FTIR spectroscopy permits a detailed characterization of bacterial reactivity, allowing an understanding of the fundamental mechanism of action involved in the interaction between bacteria and disinfectants. The disinfectants studied were ethanol 70% (N = 5), isopropanol (N = 5), sodium hypochlorite (N = 5), triclosan (N = 5) and triclocarban (N = 5). Results showed less than 5% colony forming units growth of MRSA treated with triclocarban and no growth in the other groups. Nearly 70,000 mid-infrared spectra from the five treatments and the two control (untreated; N = 4) groups of MRSA (bacteria grown in TSB and incubated at 37\xc2\xb0C (Control I) / at ambient temperature (Control II), for 24h) were pre-processed and analyzed using principal component analysis followed by linear discriminant analysis (PCA-LDA). Clustering of strains of MRSA belonging to five treatments and the discrimination between each treatment and two control groups in MRSA (untreated) were investigated. PCA-LDA discriminatory frequencies suggested that ethanol-treated spectra are the most similar to isopropanol-treated spectra biochemically. Also reported here are the biochemical alterations in the structure of proteins, lipid membranes, and phosphate groups of MRSA produced by sodium hypochlorite, triclosan, and triclocarban treatments. These findings provide mechanistic information involved in the interaction between MRSA strains and hygiene products; thereby demonstrating the potential of spectroscopic analysis as an objective, robust, and label-free tool for evaluating the macromolecular changes involved in disinfectant-treated MRSA. labels: #Alcohols#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Disinfectants#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus'
b'BACKGROUND: Morphometric measurements of systemic atherosclerosis and direct quantification of visceral fat are only possible using materials from autopsy studies. However, the few autopsy studies that have investigated the association of visceral fat with atherosclerosis had small sample sizes and focused on coronary arteries of young or middle-aged White subjects. We aimed to investigate the association of pericardial fat (PF) and abdominal visceral fat (AVF) with atherosclerosis in the aorta, coronary, carotid, and cerebral arteries in a large autopsy study.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated deceased subjects aged 30 years or above. We dissected and weighted the PF and the AVF and evaluated the atherosclerotic burden in the aorta, as well as the carotid, coronary, and cerebral arteries using morphometric measurements. We also investigated the interaction of PF and AVF with age regarding the atherosclerotic burden.RESULTS: The mean age of the 240 included subjects was 64.8\xc2\xb115.3 years, and 63% was male. Greater PF was associated with a higher degree of aortic atherosclerosis after adjusting for confounding variables (coefficient = 4.39, 95% CI = 0.83; 7.94, p = 0.02). Greater AVF was associated with a higher coronary stenosis index (coefficient = 1.49, 95% CI = 0.15; 2.83, p = 0.03) and a greater number of coronary plaques (coefficient = 0.71, 95% CI = 0.24; 1.19, p = 0.003). We did not find an association of PF or AVF with carotid or cerebral atherosclerotic burden. We found a significant interaction of AVF (coefficient = -0.08; 95% CI = -0.14; -0.02, p = 0.009) and PF (coefficient = -0.87, 95% CI = -1.70; -0.04, p = 0.04) with age regarding carotid artery atherosclerotic burden.CONCLUSIONS: Greater AVF was associated with greater atherosclerotic burden and extent in coronary arteries, while greater PF correlated with a higher degree of atherosclerosis in the aorta. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arteries#Atherosclerosis#Autopsy#Female#Humans#Intra-Abdominal Fat#Male#Middle Aged'
b'An extensive proteostatic network comprised of molecular chaperones and protein clearance mechanisms functions collectively to preserve the integrity and resiliency of the proteome. The efficacy of this network deteriorates during aging, coinciding with many clinical manifestations, including protein aggregation diseases of the nervous system. A decline in proteostasis can be delayed through the activation of cytoprotective transcriptional responses, which are sensitive to environmental stress and internal metabolic and physiological cues. The homeodomain-interacting protein kinase (hipk) family members are conserved transcriptional co-factors that have been implicated in both genotoxic and metabolic stress responses from yeast to mammals. We demonstrate that constitutive expression of the sole Caenorhabditis elegans Hipk homolog, hpk-1, is sufficient to delay aging, preserve proteostasis, and promote stress resistance, while loss of hpk-1 is deleterious to these phenotypes. We show that HPK-1 preserves proteostasis and extends longevity through distinct but complementary genetic pathways defined by the heat shock transcription factor (HSF-1), and the target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1). We demonstrate that HPK-1 antagonizes sumoylation of HSF-1, a post-translational modification associated with reduced transcriptional activity in mammals. We show that inhibition of sumoylation by RNAi enhances HSF-1-dependent transcriptional induction of chaperones in response to heat shock. We find that hpk-1 is required for HSF-1 to induce molecular chaperones after thermal stress and enhances hormetic extension of longevity. We also show that HPK-1 is required in conjunction with HSF-1 for maintenance of proteostasis in the absence of thermal stress, protecting against the formation of polyglutamine (Q35::YFP) protein aggregates and associated locomotory toxicity. These functions of HPK-1/HSF-1 undergo rapid down-regulation once animals reach reproductive maturity. We show that HPK-1 fortifies proteostasis and extends longevity by an additional independent mechanism: induction of autophagy. HPK-1 is necessary for induction of autophagosome formation and autophagy gene expression in response to dietary restriction (DR) or inactivation of TORC1. The autophagy-stimulating transcription factors pha-4/FoxA and mxl-2/Mlx, but not hlh-30/TFEB or the nuclear hormone receptor nhr-62, are necessary for extended longevity resulting from HPK-1 overexpression. HPK-1 expression is itself induced by transcriptional mechanisms after nutritional stress, and post-transcriptional mechanisms in response to thermal stress. Collectively our results position HPK-1 at a central regulatory node upstream of the greater proteostatic network, acting at the transcriptional level by promoting protein folding via chaperone expression, and protein turnover via expression of autophagy genes. HPK-1 therefore provides a promising intervention point for pharmacological agents targeting the protein homeostasis system as a means of preserving robust longevity. labels: #Aging#Animals#Autophagy#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation#Homeostasis#Longevity#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Molecular Chaperones#Multiprotein Complexes#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Signal Transduction#Stress, Physiological#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transcription Factors'
b'Dystroglycan (DG) is a highly glycosylated protein complex that links the cytoskeleton with the extracellular matrix, mediating fundamental physiological functions such as mechanical stability of tissues, matrix organization and cell polarity. A crucial role in the glycosylation of the DG \xce\xb1 subunit is played by its own N-terminal region that is required by the glycosyltransferase LARGE. Alteration in this O-glycosylation deeply impairs the high affinity binding to other extracellular matrix proteins such as laminins. Recently, three missense mutations in the gene encoding DG, mapped in the \xce\xb1-DG N-terminal region, were found to be responsible for hypoglycosylated states, causing congenital diseases of different severity referred as primary dystroglycanopaties.To gain insight on the molecular basis of these disorders, we investigated the crystallographic and solution structures of these pathological point mutants, namely V72I, D109N and T190M. Small Angle X-ray Scattering analysis reveals that these mutations affect the structures in solution, altering the distribution between compact and more elongated conformations. These results, supported by biochemical and biophysical assays, point to an altered structural flexibility of the mutant \xce\xb1-DG N-terminal region that may have repercussions on its interaction with LARGE and/or other DG-modifying enzymes, eventually reducing their catalytic efficiency. labels: #Animals#Crystallography#Dystroglycans#Enzyme Stability#Fluorometry#Mice#Models, Molecular#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Mutation, Missense#Protein Denaturation#Scattering, Small Angle#Solutions#X-Ray Diffraction'
b"The multiple insecurities, anatomical, physiological and psychological changes arising from the gestational period can generate an overload of stress in the mother and cause disturbances in the offspring, affecting it throughout its development. The existing analysis linking prenatal stress and offspring's anxiety have divergent results, being limited as to gestational week, type of stressor and age of progeny's assessment. Social separation has been described as a stressor that causes increase in anxiety. Thus, the present study evaluated the effects of social separation applied in one of the three gestational weeks of rat dams on the manifestation of the defensive behaviors related to generalized anxiety disorder and panic in the Elevated T Maze of the male progeny in three stages of development (1, 3 or 6 months of life). It was found, in the offspring of grouped (control) dams, increased behaviors associated with generalized anxiety disorder and a reduction of panic-like behaviors throughout development. For animals whose dams were socially separated during pregnancy, the most critical period of exposure was the 2nd gestational week, which affected the acquisition of aversive memory, demonstrated by the impairment on learning of avoidances of the offspring in all ages evaluated. Stressor exposure in this week also increased the avoidances, related to generalized anxiety of progeny in the 1st month and decreased escapes, related to panic in the 3rd month of life and, at the age of 6 months old, an inverse situation, with the reduction of the defensive behaviors associated to generalized anxiety disorder. The results show that, when assessing effects of prenatal stress on the manifestation of anxiety, not only the period of exposure is important, but also the age of offspring assessed. labels: #Aging#Animals#Anxiety#Avoidance Learning#Female#Male#Memory#Models, Animal#Panic#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Rats, Wistar#Social Behavior#Social Isolation#Stress, Psychological"
b'BACKGROUND: Cooling the lower abdomen is one of the Japanese traditional non-pharmacological prophylactic managements for postpartum hemorrhage. This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of cooling the lower abdomen in reducing postpartum blood loss compared with no intervention. In both cases, women delivered vaginally without prophylactic oxytocin in the third stage of labor.METHODS: In this randomized controlled trial, the lower abdomen was cooled by placement of an 8.6\xc2\xb0C icepack during the first 2 h after placental delivery. The primary outcome was measured as the total blood loss within 2 h after delivery. This study had 80% power at the two tails of 5% significance level to detect the mean difference (MD, 70 g) in total blood loss within 2 h after delivery between the two groups. The sample size was calculated as 144 women (72 women per group).RESULTS: Between January and May 2016, 160 women were randomly assigned to the intervention group (cooling the lower abdomen, n = 81) or the control group (n = 79). Baseline characteristics were similar between groups, with the exception of mean blood loss during the third stage of labor. The primary outcome was not reduced by cooling, compared with no intervention (mean blood loss, 513.3 vs. 478.1 g, respectively; MD = 35.2 g; 95% confidence interval = -65.3-135.7). No adverse events occurred; however, seven (8.7%) women in the intervention group declined to continue cooling the lower abdomen because of discomfort.CONCLUSION: Compared with the control group, cooling the lower abdomen did not reduce the total amount of blood loss up to 2 h after delivery.TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN-CTR UMIN000019834. labels: #Abdomen#Adult#Female#Humans#Postpartum Hemorrhage#Temperature'
b'Targeting of Toxoplasma gondii by autophagy is an effective mechanism by which host cells kill the protozoan. Thus, the parasite must avoid autophagic targeting to survive. Here we show that the mammalian cytoplasmic molecule Focal Adhesion Kinase (FAK) becomes activated during invasion of host cells. Activated FAK appears to accompany the formation of the moving junction (as assessed by expression the parasite protein RON4). FAK activation was inhibited by approaches that impaired \xce\xb21 and \xce\xb23 integrin signaling. FAK caused activation of Src that in turn mediated Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) phosphorylation at the unique Y845 residue. Expression of Src-resistant Y845F EGFR mutant markedly inhibited ROP16-independent activation of STAT3 in host cells. Activation of FAK, Y845 EGFR or STAT3 prevented activation of PKR and eIF2\xce\xb1, key stimulators of autophagy. Genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of FAK, Src, EGFR phosphorylation at Y845, or STAT3 caused accumulation of the autophagy protein LC3 and LAMP-1 around the parasite and parasite killing dependent on autophagy proteins (ULK1 and Beclin 1) and lysosomal enzymes. Parasite killing was inhibited by expression of dominant negative PKR. Thus, T. gondii activates a FAK\xe2\x86\x92Src\xe2\x86\x92Y845-EGFR\xe2\x86\x92STAT3 signaling axis within mammalian cells, thereby enabling the parasite to survive by avoiding autophagic targeting through a mechanism likely dependent on preventing activation of PKR and eIF2\xce\xb1. labels: #Animals#Autophagy#Focal Adhesion Protein-Tyrosine Kinases#Host-Parasite Interactions#Humans#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#STAT3 Transcription Factor#Signal Transduction#Toxoplasma#src-Family Kinases'
b'Urinary tract infection is one of the most common bacterial infections worldwide. Current diagnosis of urinary tract infection chiefly relies on its clinical presentation, urine dipstick tests and urine culture. Small molecules found in bio-fluids related with both infection and recovery would facilitate diagnosis and management of UTI. Mass spectrometry-based fingerprinting of plasma and urine at 3 time points, pre-infection (t = -24h), infection (t = 24h) and post 3-day treatment (t = 112h), were acquired in the following four groups: mice which were healthy, infected but not treated, infected and treated with ciprofloxacin, and infected and treated with Relinqing\xc2\xae granules (n = 6 per group). A metabolomics workflow including multivariate analysis and ROC regression was employed to select metabolic features that correlated with UTI and its treatment. Circa 4,000 molecular features were acquired for each sample. The small acid 3-hydroxybutyrate in plasma was found to be differentiated for urinary tract infection, with an area under the curve = 0.97 (95% confidence interval: 0.93-1.00, accuracy = 0.91, sensitivity = 0.92 and specificity = 0.91). The level of 3-hydroxybutyrate in plasma was depleted after infection with a fold change of -22 (q<0.0001). Correlation between plasma 3-hydroxybutyrate and urine bacterial number in all groups and time points was r = -0.753 (p<0.0001). The findings show that 3-hydroxybutyrate is depleted in blood and strongly associated with UTI at both infection and post-treatment stage in a UTI mouse model. Further work is envisaged to assess the clinical potential of blood tests to assist with UTI management. labels: #3-Hydroxybutyric Acid#Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Dogs#Female#Metabolomics#Mice#Phenotype#Time Factors#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'Plant microRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of non-coding RNAs that play important roles in plant development, defense, and symptom development. Here, 547 known miRNAs representing 129 miRNA families, and 282 potential novel miRNAs were identified in Beta macrocarpa using small RNA deep sequencing. A phylogenetic analysis was performed, and 8 Beta lineage-specific miRNAs were identified. Through a differential expression analysis, miRNAs associated with Beet necrotic yellow vein virus (BNYVV) infection were identified and confirmed using a microarray analysis and stem-loop RT-qPCR. In total, 103 known miRNAs representing 38 miRNA families, and 45 potential novel miRNAs were differentially regulated, with at least a two-fold change, in BNYVV-infected plants compared with that of the mock-inoculated control. Targets of these differentially expressed miRNAs were also predicted by degradome sequencing. These differentially expressed miRNAs were involved in hormone biosynthesis and signal transduction pathways, and enhanced axillary bud development and plant defenses. This work is the first to describe miRNAs of the plant genus Beta and may offer a reference for miRNA research in other species in the genus. It provides valuable information on the pathogenicity mechanisms of BNYVV. labels: #Beta vulgaris#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#MicroRNAs#Phylogeny#Plant Diseases#Plant Growth Regulators#Plant Leaves#Plant Viruses#Sequence Analysis, RNA#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND: Many studies have found significant associations between high ambient temperatures and increases in heat-related morbidity and mortality. Several studies have demonstrated that increases in heat-related hospitalizations are elevated among individuals with diagnosed mental illnesses and/or behavioral disorders (MBD). However, there are a limited number of studies regarding risk factors associated with specific mental illnesses that contribute, at least in part, to heat-related illnesses (HRI) in the United States.OBJECTIVE: To identify and characterize individual and environmental risk factors associated with MBD hospitalizations with a concurrent HRI diagnosis.METHODS: This study uses hospitalization data from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample (2001-2010). Descriptive analyses of primary and secondary diagnoses of MBDs with an HRI were examined. Risk ratios (RR) were calculated from multivariable models to identify risk factors for hospitalizations among patients with mental illnesses and/or behavioral disorders and HRI.RESULTS: Nondependent alcohol/drug abuse, dementia, and schizophrenia were among the disorders that were associated with increased frequency of HRI hospitalizations among MBD patients. Increased risk of MBD hospitalizations with HRI was observed for Males (RR, 3.06), African Americans (RR, 1.16), Native Americans (RR, 1.70), uninsured (RR, 1.92), and those 40 years and older, compared to MBD hospitalizations alone.CONCLUSIONS: Previous studies outside the U.S. have found that dementia and schizophrenia are significant risk factors for HRI hospitalizations. Our results suggest that hospitalizations among substance abusers may also be an important risk factor associated with heat morbidity. Improved understanding of these relative risks could help inform future public health strategies. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Heat Stress Disorders#Hospitalization#Humans#Infant#Male#Mental Disorders#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Problem Behavior#Risk#Young Adult'
b"The American Southwest has experienced a series of severe droughts interspersed with strong wet episodes over the past decades, prompting questions about future climate patterns and potential intensification of weather disruptions under warming conditions. Here we show that interannual hydroclimatic variability in this region has displayed a significant level of non-stationarity over the past millennium. Our tree ring-based analysis of past drought indicates that the Little Ice Age (LIA) experienced high interannual hydroclimatic variability, similar to projections for the 21st century. This is contrary to the Medieval Climate Anomaly (MCA), which had reduced variability and therefore may be misleading as an analog for 21st century warming, notwithstanding its warm (and arid) conditions. Given past non-stationarity, and particularly erratic LIA, a 'warm LIA' climate scenario for the coming century that combines high precipitation variability (similar to LIA conditions) with warm and dry conditions (similar to MCA conditions) represents a plausible situation that is supported by recent climate simulations. Our comparison of tree ring-based drought analysis and records from the tropical Pacific Ocean suggests that changing variability in El Ni\xc3\xb1o Southern Oscillation (ENSO) explains much of the contrasting variances between the MCA and LIA conditions across the American Southwest. Greater ENSO variability for the 21st century could be induced by a decrease in meridional sea surface temperature gradient caused by increased greenhouse gas concentration, as shown by several recent climate modeling experiments. Overall, these results coupled with the paleo-record suggests that using the erratic LIA conditions as benchmarks for past hydroclimatic variability can be useful for developing future water-resource management and drought and flood hazard mitigation strategies in the Southwest. labels: #Climate Change#Computer Simulation#Droughts#El Nino-Southern Oscillation#Forecasting#Fossils#Models, Theoretical#Southwestern United States#Temperature#Trees#Water"
b"INTRODUCTION: Most HIV infections in Africa are acquired by married/cohabiting adults and WHO recommends couple's voluntary HIV counseling and testing (CVCT) for prevention. The handover from NGO-sponsored weekend CVCT to government-sponsored services in routine weekday antenatal care (ANC) and individual voluntary testing and counseling (VCT) services in Zambia's two largest cities from 2009-2015 is described.METHODS: Government clinic counselors were trained to provide CVCT, and along with community health workers they promoted CVCT services in their clinic and surrounding areas. When client volume exceeded the capacity of on-duty staff in ANC and VCT, non-governmental organization (NGO) subsidies were offered for overtime pay.RESULTS: Implementation of routine CVCT services varied greatly by clinic and city. The 12 highest volume clinics were examined further, while 13 clinics had CVCT numbers that were too low to warrant further investigation. In Lusaka, the proportion of pregnant women whose partners were tested rose from 2.6% in 2009 to a peak of 26.2% in 2012 and 24.8% in 2015. Corresponding reports in Ndola were 2.0% in 2009, 17.0% in 2012 and 14.5% in 2015. Obstacles to CVCT included: limited space and staffing, competing priorities, record keeping not adapted for couples, and few resources for promotion and increasing male involvement. Conflicting training models for 'partner testing' with men and women separately vs. CVCT with joint post-test counseling led to confusion in reporting to district health authorities.DISCUSSION: A focused and sustained effort will be required to reach a meaningful number of couples with CVCT to prevent heterosexual and perinatal HIV transmission. Establishing targets and timelines, funding for dedicated and appropriately trained staff, adoption of standardized data recording instruments with couple-level indicators, and expansion of community and clinic-based promotions using proven models are recommended. labels: #Cities#Female#Government#HIV Infections#Health Promotion#Humans#Infectious Disease Transmission, Vertical#Male#Practice Guidelines as Topic#Pregnancy#Prenatal Care#Sexual Partners#Time Factors#Volition#Zambia"
b"OBJECTIVES: Socioeconomic status has been shown to be associated with sexual activity, contraceptive-use, pregnancy and abortion among young people. Less is known about whether the strength of the association differs for each outcome, between men and women, or cross-nationally. We investigate this using contemporaneous national probability survey data from Britain and France.METHODS: Data were analysed for 17-29 year-olds in Britain's third National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles (Natsal-3, n = 5959) undertaken 2010-2012, and the 2010 French Fertility, Contraception and Sexual Dysfunction survey (FECOND, n = 3027). For each country, we estimated the gender-specific prevalence of sex before-16, contraceptive-use, conception before-20, and abortion in the event of conception, and used logistic regression to examine associations between two measures of socioeconomic status-educational-level and parental socioeconomic-group-and each outcome. We tested for interactions between socioeconomic characteristics and country, and socioeconomic characteristics and gender, for each outcome.RESULTS: For each outcome, Britain and France differed with regard to prevalence but associations with socioeconomic characteristics were similar. Respondents of higher educational level, and, less consistently, with parents from higher socioeconomic-groups, were less likely to report sex before-16 (Britain, men: adjusted OR (aOR) 0.5, women: aOR 0.5; France, men: aOR 0.5, women: aOR 0.5), no contraception at first sex (Britain, men: aOR 0.4, women: aOR 0.6; France, men: aOR 0.4, women: aOR 0.4), pregnancy before-20 (Britain: aOR 0.3; France: aOR 0.1), and in Britain, a birth rather than an abortion in the event of conception (Britain: aOR 3.1). We found no strong evidence of variation in the magnitude of the associations with socioeconomic characteristics by country or gender.CONCLUSIONS: Population level differences in conception and abortion rates between the two countries may partly be driven by the larger proportion of the population that is disadvantaged in Britain. This research highlights the role intra-country comparisons can play in understanding young people's sexual and reproductive behaviours. labels: #Abortion, Induced#Adolescent#Adult#Female#Fertilization#France#Humans#Sexual Behavior#Social Class#United Kingdom#Young Adult"
b'Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) of aquatic invasive species environmental DNA (AIS eDNA) was used for rapid, sensitive, and specific detection of Dreissena sp. relevant to the Great Lakes (USA) basin. The method was validated for two uses including i) direct amplification of eDNA using a hand filtration system and ii) confirmation of the results after DNA extraction using a conventional thermal cycler run at isothermal temperatures. Direct amplification eliminated the need for DNA extraction and purification and allowed detection of target invasive species in grab or concentrated surface water samples, containing both free DNA as well as larger cells and particulates, such as veligers, eggs, or seeds. The direct amplification method validation was conducted using Dreissena polymorpha and Dreissena bugensis and uses up to 1 L grab water samples for high target abundance (e.g., greater than 10 veligers (larval mussels) per L for Dreissena sp.) or 20 L samples concentrated through 35 \xce\xbcm nylon screens for low target abundance, at less than 10 veligers per liter water. Surface water concentrate samples were collected over a period of three years, mostly from inland lakes in Michigan with the help of a network of volunteers. Field samples collected from 318 surface water locations included i) filtered concentrate for direct amplification validation and ii) 1 L grab water sample for eDNA extraction and confirmation. Though the extraction-based protocol was more sensitive (resulting in more positive detections than direct amplification), direct amplification could be used for rapid screening, allowing for quicker action times. For samples collected between May and August, results of eDNA direct amplification were consistent with known presence/absence of selected invasive species. A cross-platform smartphone application was also developed to disseminate the analyzed results to volunteers. Field tests of the direct amplification protocol using a portable device (Gene-Z) showed the method could be used in the field to obtain results within one hr (from sample to result). Overall, the direct amplification has the potential to simplify the eDNA-based monitoring of multiple aquatic invasive species. Additional studies are warranted to establish quantitative correlation between eDNA copy number, veliger, biomass or organismal abundance in the field. labels: #Animals#DNA#Dreissena#Environment#Environmental Monitoring#Introduced Species#Laboratories#Nucleic Acid Amplification Techniques#Pilot Projects#Time Factors#Water'
b'Intestinal helminth antigens are inducers of type 2 responses and can elicit regulatory immune responses, resulting in dampened inflammation. Several platyhelminth proteins with anti-inflammatory activity have been reported. We have identified, cloned and expressed the Taenia solium calreticulin (rTsCRT) and shown that it predominantly induces a type 2 response characterized by IgG1, IL-4 and IL-5 production in mice. Here, we report the rTsCRT anti-inflammatory activity in a well-known experimental colitis murine model. Mice were orally immunized with purified rTsCRT and colitis was induced with trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS). Clinical signs of disease, macroscopic and microscopic tissue inflammation, cytokine production and micronuclei formation, as a marker of genotoxicity, were measured in order to assess the effect of rTsCRT immunization on experimentally induced colitis. rTsCRT administration prior to TNBS instillation significantly reduced the inflammatory parameters, including the acute phase cytokines TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-1\xce\xb2 and IL-6. Dampened inflammation was associated with increased local expression of IL-13 and systemic IL-10 and TGF-\xce\xb2 production. Genotoxic damage produced by the inflammatory response was also precluded. Our results show that oral treatment with rTsCRT prevents excessive TNBS-induced inflammation in mice and suggest that rTsCRT has immunomodulatory properties associated with the expression of type 2 and regulatory cytokines commonly observed in other helminths. labels: #Administration, Oral#Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Antigens, Helminth#Calreticulin#Colitis#Cytokines#DNA Damage#Disease Models, Animal#Immunomodulation#Intestines#Mice#Taenia solium'
b'BACKGROUND: Diet has been associated with better mental health in general populations, but less is known on this association in patients with a history of coronary heart disease. The objective of this study is to examine the cross-sectional associations between dietary patterns and mental health in elderly patients with a history of myocardial infarction.METHODS: Data were drawn from the final assessment of the Alpha Omega cohort that monitored patients with a history of myocardial infarction (age range 60-80 years). 2171 patients with complete data for diet and mental health were included in this study. Diet was assessed with the 203-item Food Frequency Questionnaire, and subsequently categorized into two scores: the Dutch Healthy Nutrient and Food Score (DHNaFS) and the Dutch Undesirable Nutrient and Food Score (DUNaFS). Depressive symptoms, assessed with the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS-15), and dispositional optimism, assessed with the 4-item questionnaire (4Q), were cross-sectionally analyzed in relation to dietary patterns using linear regression analysis.RESULTS: Patients were on average 72.2 years old and 79.5% were male. The DHNaFS score was associated with less depressive symptoms and higher dispositional optimism (\xce\xb2 = -0.108; P<0.001; and \xce\xb2 = 0.074; P<0.001), whereas no associations were found with the DUNaFS score. Particularly, consumption of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, fish, and low fat-dairy were associated with less depressive symptoms and higher optimism. Similar associations were found when analyzing the association between average DHNaFS score over the preceding 41 months with depression \xce\xb2 = -0.085; P<0.001) and higher dispositional optimism (\xce\xb2 = 0.084; P<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: A healthy dietary pattern, in particular a higher consumption of vegetables, fruit, whole grains, fish and low-fat dairy, was associated with less depressive symptoms and higher optimism. However, given the cross-sectional nature of our analyses, our findings may also be explained by more optimistic participants making healthier food choices. Therefore, future prospective or interventions studies are needed to establish the direction of causality of this association.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03192410. labels: #Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diet#Female#Humans#Male#Mental Health#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction'
